Kathmandu, January 24 Leaders and cadres of Nepal Students Union, the student wing of the main opposition party Nepali Congress, have continued their protest against the party leadership’s decision to extend the term of the Union’s executive committee. The dissident leaders on Thursday went to the party’s central office in Sanepa of Lalitpur today and staged a demonstration. The party’s Central Working Committee meeting is underway at the office this afternoon. The protesters blocked the way of party President Sher Bahadur Deuba and parliamentary party deputy leader Bijaya Kumar Gachhadar to the meeting. The protesting leaders have demanded that the party withdraw the decision to extend the term of Nain Singh Mahar-led team as it has repeatedly failed to hold the general convention and hand over the leadership to the new elected committee. Published on January 24th, Thursday, 2019 2:53 PM 
Birgunj, January 24 More than 88,000 trees are likely to be chopped down for the construction of the Nepal-India petroleum pipeline. Government officials have informed that total 88,163 trees will be cut down between Amalekhgunj and Pathalaiya of Bara district, in the forest area protected by Parsa National Park. The Ministry of Forest and Environment says a Cabinet meeting held last week approved the Ministry’s request to fell the trees. The Cabinet has assigned Timber Corporation of Nepal to execute the decision. Accordingly, the Corporation’s Pathalaiya branch has issued a notice calling for tenders to chop down the trees. However, no decision has been made about removing trees from the forest area south of Pathalaiya. The construction company digging the pipeline says it will complete the assignment in 15 days once the land is cleared after chopping down the trees. Published on January 24th, Thursday, 2019 2:11 PM 
Kathmandu, January 24 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC on Thursday has requested members of Parliament to correct ‘errors’ in the revised National Medical Education Bill. He has called on the lawmakers not to get carried away by the illusion created by the ruling party. Dr KC is currently a fast-unto-death demanding that the government correct the bill as agreed with him some months ago. “I hope the representative body will not make any decision under the influence of the illusion created by those who change their issues as per the change in time and power,” his letter reads, adding his demand is directly connected to the quality of health services the government has envisioned. In the letter, Dr KC has reiterated that he is fighting for expanding quality health services across the country. Claiming that he is not being egotistic, Dr KC has reminded that leaders of the ruling party–Subas Chandra Nembang and Bishnu Paudel–had witnessed the agreement the government signed with him earlier. “As a citizen, I cannot consider the promise made by the government, the Prime Minister and the people’s representatives as a deception. I hope the lawmakers also will not do so.” Published on January 24th, Thursday, 2019 1:52 PM 
Kathmandu, January 24 The main opposition party Nepali Congress is beginning its Central Working Committee meeting in Kathmandu on Thursday. It will be the first CWC meeting of theÂ  party after the crucial mahasamiti meeting held last month. The meeting will discuss contemporary national political issues and internal problems of the party. “In particular, the meeting will focus on the disputes surfaced in Nepal Students Union, the House obstruction we have been continuing for past few days and documenting the revised party statute endorsed by the mahasamiti,” informs CWC member Pradeep Paudel. Demanding that the federal government operate two hospitals named after deceased Congress leaders Girija Prasad Koirala and Sushil Koirala, the main opposition party is obstructing meetings of the House of Representatives and the National Assembly. In the meantime, the party leadership has decided to extend the term of the student wing, but it has triggered a dispute inside the organisation. A section of the NSU has demanded that the current committee be dissolved and the general convention be held at the earliest to elect the new one. Top leaders of the party are also divided over the issue. The meeting will begin at the party’s central office in Sanepa of Lalitpur at 11 am today. Published on January 24th, Thursday, 2019 9:48 AM 
Kathmandu, January 23 Gandaki Province is taking steps to demolish buildings constructed by encroaching land around Phewa Lake. The SC on April 29, 2018 ordered to remove the buildings and business establishments built by encroaching the lake after a writ petition was filed by Advocate Khagendra Subedi. The provincial cabinet meeting on Wednesday formed an 11-member committee headed by Minister for Industry, Tourism and Environment for Gandaki Province, Bikash Lamsal. The committee will demolish all buildings which were built by encroaching the lake. According to a report prepared by the Phewa Lake Conservation and Management Office (FLCMO), there are as many as 204 illegal structures on the lakeâ€™s property. Published on January 23rd, Wednesday, 2019 7:45 PM 
     Kathmandu, January 23 The Nepali Congress-aligned Nepal Student Union members staged an anti-government a protest in Kathmandu on Wednesday. The protest, which started in Maitighar Mandala, ended at New Baneshowor. The students are demanding that the federal government manage hospitals named after former NC leaders Girija Prasad Koirala and Sushil Koirala. The union has also demanded that the government apprehended culprits behind the rape and murder of 13-year-old Nirmala Pant. The union demands that the government fulfill its promises made to Dr Govinda KC, who is on a hunger strike for the last 15 days. Published on January 23rd, Wednesday, 2019 4:54 PM 
Kathmandu, January 23 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has claimed that Nepal has recently achieved political stability, appealing to the international community to get ready for ‘deeper cooperation’ in trade, investment and connectivity. Addressing a session titled ‘Strategic Outlook on South Asia’ during the annual meeting of World Economic Forum in Davos of Switzerland on Tuesday, the Prime Minister said the political stability of the country had ensured an enabling environment for socio-economic development. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs informs in a statement that the Prime Minister also talked about South Asia’s richness in demographic dividend and the region’s tremendous potentials for economic growth through regional cooperation. Meanwhile, Finance Minister Yuba Raj Khatiwada addressed a session on ‘Investment Trends Monitor’ organised by UNCTAD in Davos yesterday, according to the Ministry. He said that conventional model of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) flows would not work any longer and that innovative financing mechanism with blended financing and risk sharing was necessary to meet the financing gaps especially in poorer countries. Published on January 23rd, Wednesday, 2019 10:52 AM 
Kathmandu, January 23 Officials at the Meteorological Forecasting Division under the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology say the rain is likely in most parts of the country till Wednesday night. They further claim that the cloudy weather will embrace the country for next few days. Kathmandu and other parts of the country are receiving rainfall since last night. Officials say this is an impact of the westerly wind. Meteorologist Ganga Nagarkoti informs that the westerly wind triggered the rainfall in the western part of the country since Monday. It spread across the central region by Tuesday evening, according to her. The rainfall will spread across the eastern part also by the afternoon. The rainfall may stop for few hours in some parts this afternoon, but it will resume from the tonight, she adds. The western part of the country is likely to receive more precipitations on Thursday, but the rest of the country is likely to get cloudy, according to them. Meanwhile, the afternoon temperature is estimated to come down due to the rainfall. However, the minimum temperature is unlikely to go below the freezing point, the lowest of this year, according to meteorologists. Published on January 23rd, Wednesday, 2019 9:41 AM 
 Saptari, January 23 Police say a patrol team has shot dead a murder suspect in Rayapur of Saptari district in the wee hours of Wednesday. Dipendra Chaudhary, a resident of Kadarbona of the district, has been killed in police action at around 4 am today, according to SP Rajendra Bista, chief of the District Police Office. Bista claims Chaudhary had opened fire on police at first, and police had resorted to firing in retaliation. Chaudhary was accused of murdering ASI Ramesh Subba around five years ago and injuring police constable Mahendra Satar around one week ago. Likewise, he was also involved in planting an explosive near the Kadarbona Police Post few years back, according to police. The security personnel recovered a homemade pistol from the deceased. Published on January 23rd, Wednesday, 2019 9:17 AM 
Kathmandu, January 22 The Ministry of Youth and Sports has formed a three-member committee to investigate into alleged financial irregularities surrounding the election at All Nepal Football Association. The committee is led by the Ministry’s joint secretary Ana Prasad Neupane and comprises of undersecretary Samanta Mani Acharya and National Sports Council, Association and Federation Department Chief Dem Bahadur Basnet. The committee has been given 10 days to submit their report. According to Secretary Mohan Krishna Sapkota, the committee was formed after complaints from four district football associations, which asked ANFA to check if there were any financial irregularities surrounding the election. District football associations from Kathmandu, Bhaktapur, Lalitpur and Dhading had released an audio tape as a proof that there were irregularities and showed signs of corruption during ANFA’s general elections in April 2018. Published on January 22nd, Tuesday, 2019 4:10 PM 
Kathmandu, January 22 Nepal’s national cricket team have left for the United Arab Emirates on Tuesday. The team will play one three match one day series and another three match T20 series against the hosts. Before taking the flight, the team’s captain Paras Khadka told journalists that his team would win both the series. “In results of pat few years, we are neck and neck with the UAE. We have a good opportunity to win the games,” Khadka said, “We should be strong in all aspects of the game, batting, bowling, and fielding.” He said the series would be significant for the country as they would affect the one day international ranking. The one day matches have been scheduled for January 25, 26 and 28. Likewise, T20 matches will be held on January 31, February 1 and February 3. Earlier, National Sports Council Member Secretary Keshav Kumar Bista had seen the team off amidst a special function in the capital. Published on January 22nd, Tuesday, 2019 4:06 PM 
Kathmandu, January 22 The Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee on Tuesday unanimously endorsed three names recommended by the government for Nepal’s ambassadors to various countries. A meeting of the Committee held today unanimously endorsed the names of Durga Prasad Bhandari nominated for Kuwait, Bhrigu Dhungana nominated for Canada, and Mani Prasad Bhattarai nominated for the United Nations in Geneva. They are working as joint secretaries at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently. Not a single complaint was filed against them at the committee. Earlier, the government had recommended five career diplomats to head Nepal’s diplomatic missions abroad. Deepak Adhikari proposed for France and Ganesh Prasad Dhakal proposed for Thailand have already received the parliamentary nod. President Bidya Devi Bhandari will appoint them the ambassadors once the host countries send agreménts in their names. Published on January 22nd, Tuesday, 2019 3:54 PM 
Kathmandu, January 21 Nepal’s national cricket team member Sandeep Lamichhane has come back to Nepal quitting his team of the Bangladesh Premier League. Lamichhane is back home so as to prepare for Nepal’s scheduled one day and T20 series with the United Arab Emirates. Lamichhane had left the country in early December last year to play in Big Bash League of Australia. He had come to Dhaka while leading the Australian league halfway. He played four matches in Australia and six in Bangladesh. Lamichhane arrived in Kathmandu on Monday. The Nepal team will leave for Abu Dhabi on Tuesday. Nepal will play a three match one day series and another three match T20 series against the UAE. The one day matches have been scheduled for January 25, 26 and 28. Likewise, T20 matches will be held on January 31, February 1 and February 3.     Published on January 21st, Monday, 2019 3:37 PM 
Kathmandu, January 21 Minister for Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation Barsha Man Pun says the ongoing construction of Upper Tamakoshi Hydroelectric Project, Nepal’s biggest hydro project so far, will be over within next six months. The completion will also mark the end of all problems in the sector, he claims. Speaking at a function organised in Kathmandu on Monday, the Minister said the government was preparing to make the country independent in energy generation. He, however, presented statistics that the government imported electricity worth Rs 70 million from India in the last fiscal year. Pun was of the view that sufficient electricity should be produced to ensure two digit economic growth of the country. Stating that everyone needed to invest their time, energy and resources in the national development, the Minister called on the private sector not to get frightened with the communist government. Published on January 21st, Monday, 2019 2:43 PM 
Kathmandu, January 21 An expert group has called for strengthening and expanding sexual and reproductive health services in member countries of WHO South-East Asia Region, to reduce deaths of mothers and babies. The World Health Organization says the death rates continue to be at unacceptable levels in these countries despite recent substantial declines. The South-East Asia region includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, India, Indonesia, Maldives, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and Timor-Leste. “We must focus on neglected sexual and reproductive health issues such as post pregnancy family planning, comprehensive abortion care, and prevention and management of cervical cancer,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia, at the South-East Asia Region’s Technical Advisory Group (TAG) meeting for women’s and children’s health in New Delhi last week. On the occasion, the official stated that preventable maternal mortality and stillbirths were interlinked and interdependent, adding that the right mix of quality services and high coverage of essential interventions, particularly around the time of birth can save lives of many mothers and their newborns, and reduce stillbirths. Progressive and significant increase in institutional deliveries in the region offer a good opportunity to build on further efforts, according to her. Published on January 21st, Monday, 2019 2:22 PM 
Kathmandu, January 21 The main opposition party Nepali Congress on Monday obstructed the meeting of National Assembly claiming the government is preparing to dissolve two hospitals to be named after Congress leaders, Girija Prasad Koirala and Sushil Koirala. The party has been accusing the government of trying to scrap proposed Girija Prasad Koirala Respiratory Centre of Dulegaunda in Tanahun and Sushil Koirala Cancer Hospital of Banke as a recent Cabinet meeting did not approve the Ministry of Healthâ€™s proposal to keep them under the federal government. As soon as the Assembly meeting began today, the opposition lawmakers stood up from their seats in protest. They did not heed Chairperson Ganesh Prasad Timalsina’s repeated requests to take the seats and let the legislative body continue its business. Following the disruption, the meeting has been adjourned for 30 minutes, according to the Assembly Secretary Rajendra Phuyal. Published on January 21st, Monday, 2019 11:59 AM 
Kathmandu, January 20 Nepal’s national women’s cricket team have returned home on Sunday after finishing as runners-up in recently concluded Women T20 Smash in Thailand. Binod Das, the team’s coach, says that he felt the team’s performance in the tournament satisfactory even though they lost the final. “All of us wanted to win the title, but we couldnâ€™t beat Thailand who I thought are a lot better than us,” Das told journalist upon the team’s arrival at the Tribhuvan International Airport. He further added that this tournament was good for the team as it was like a practice tournament before the qualifier for the Woman’s World Cup, which will be hosted in Thailand from February 16. “I’m giving the girls a few days’ rest after which they will be in a closed camp for around 20 days. In the camp, I want to work on both strengths and weaknesses. It will help us achieve our goal to take part in the Women’s World Cup,” shared Das. Published on January 20th, Sunday, 2019 3:22 PM 
Ramechhap, January 20 One man died when a passenger bus fell off the road in Machhedandi, near the district headquarters Manthali, in Ramechhap district, around 120 kilometres east of Kathmandu. The bus (Ba 4 Kha 4210) was heading to Kathmandu from Gharakhori of Okhaldhunga district when it met with the accident at around 12 pm today. The victim has been identified as Om Karki (25), from Champadevi Rural Municipality-6 of Okhaldhunga, informs Inspector Ravi Bhushan Yadav of the District Police Office. Around 20 passengers have sustained injuries and six of them are critical, according to Yadav. The critical ones have been referred to Kathmandu for further treatment. The rest are undergoing treatment at Manthali-based Tamakoshi Cooperative Hospital. Published on January 20th, Sunday, 2019 2:57 PM 
Kathmandu, January 20 A subcommittee under the Labour and International Relations Committee in the House of Representatives has concluded that the plan to shift the domestic terminal of Tribhuvan International Airport to Nagidanda of Kavre is not necessary. Though the government has allocated Rs 500 million to conduct a feasibility study for executing the plan within this fiscal year. But, the subcommittee led by former prime minister and senior leader of ruling Nepal Communist Party, Madhav Kumar Nepal, has concluded that the plan is made just to serve vested interests of a handful of people. Whereas the government is involved in the big project of constructing an international airport in Nijgadh of Bara district, the state should not spend any money in Kavre, the panel concludes. The Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation had developed the plan arguing it would ease Kathmandu airport’s traffic congestion. Meanwhile, the panel has suggested that the construction site of Nijgadh airport be also shifted by some 100 metres towards south. Published on January 20th, Sunday, 2019 12:58 PM 
 Kathmandu, January 20 The Metropolitan Police Commissioner’s Office says as many as 21,441 CCTV cameras are needed in order to keep three districts of Kathmandu Valley safe. The Office recently carried out a study and identified that 9,117 cameras were needed in Kathmandu, 5,985 in Bhaktapur and 6,339 in Lalitpur districts. DIG Shailesh Thapa Chhetri, Chief of the Mission, however, says installing these cameras will not be immediately possible. He informs that police have been coordinating with local governments under the Community-Police Cooperation campaign of Nepal Police, and it also involves installing CCTV cameras at most necessary places. There are 21 local governments in Kathmandu Valley and each of them have at least one police unit, according to officials. There are three police ranges, 18 police circles and 167 other smaller units in operation under the Commissioner’s Office. Spokesperson at the office, SSP Puja Singh, says stakeholders and local governments have demanded establishment of 18 additional police units. Published on January 20th, Sunday, 2019 12:40 PM 
Kathmandu, January 20 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is leaving on a trip to Switzerland to attend the annual meeting of World Economic Forum. The meeting will begin this Tuesday in Davos. This is the first time that a Nepali prime minister is attending the annual meeting of WEF, according to the Prime Minister’s Secretariat. Oli will address three sessions of the meeting, according to sources. The government has hoped that Nepal’s participation in the meeting at the prime ministerial level will help the country attract more foreign investment. The PM’s 19 member delegation includes his wife Radhika Shakya, Foreign Affairs Minister Pradeep Gyawali, Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, the PM’s chief political advisor Bishnu Rimal and foreign affairs advisor Rajan Bhattarai among others. The team will return home on Saturday. Published on January 20th, Sunday, 2019 11:13 AM 
 Kathmandu, January A five-member team of doctors has been formed by Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital to look after medical education reform activistÂ Dr Govinda KC on his 16th hunger strike. The team is led by Internal Medicine Department Chief Dr Pradip Krishna Shrestha and includes Dr Sawin Thapaliya, Prof Dr Divya Singh Shah and Associate Professor Dr Pankaj Pant. “We have assigned the same team that looked after Dr KC during his 15th hunger strike,” informed Managing Director Dr Prem Khadka. KC, who has not eaten since January 9, was airlifted to Kathmandu early on Friday morning after his health detonated. He is being treated at Teaching Hospital in Maharajgunj. Khadka informed that KC suffers from heartburn, his heartbeats are not regular and he is weak. “As of now, his condition quite stable, but we are waiting for a few test results,” Khadka shared. Doctors involved in the case informed that KC has been administered medicine to make sure he doesn’t suffer from pneumonia. Published on January 18th, Friday, 2019 4:24 PM 
Kathmandu, January 18 The China government-run Global Times says illegal movement in the autonomous region of Tibet, which borders Nepal also, has sharply declined thanks to a recently launched crackdown of the Tibet government. The report claims the illegal entry and exit cases decreased by 78 per cent from the first half of 2018 to the second half. The crackdown was launched in July in the same year. “As the main department to manage exit and entry in Tibet, we are responsible and obliged to severely crack down on illegal exit and entry and to offer better services for domestic and foreign tourists,” Yuan Bin, head of the Tibet exit and entry inspection station, has been quoted in the report. Under the crackdown movement, more than 100,000 vehicles and 500,000 people have been inspected in past six months. Nearly 1,000 people were refused entry to Tibet from the border for not completing entry and exit formalities. Published on January 18th, Friday, 2019 4:22 PM 
 Kathmandu, January 18 The United Nations health agency, World Health Organization, has recently published a list of 10 biggest threats, highlighting one of those, dengue, is spreading to less tropical and more temperate countries like Nepal as well. “A high number of cases occur in the rainy seasons of countries such as Bangladesh and India. Now, its season in these countries is lengthening significantly,” the report reads, “And the disease is spreading to less tropical and more temperate countries such as Nepal, that have not traditionally seen the disease.” The list has mentioned dengue as the ninth biggest threat to global health. Other items on the list include air pollution and climate change, noncommunicable diseases, global influenza pandemic, fragile and vulnerable settings, antimicrobial resistance, ebola and other high-threat pathogens, weak primary health care, vaccine hesitancy and HIV. Meanwhile, the WHO says it is launching a new five year strategic plan in order to address these and other threats. “This plan focuses on a triple billion target:Â  ensuring one billion more people benefit from access to universal health coverage, one billion more people are protected from health emergencies and one billion more people enjoy better health and well-being.” Published on January 18th, Friday, 2019 4:13 PM 
Kathmandu, January 17 Nepali Congress leader Gagan Thapa has appealed to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli to take immediate initiatives to save the life of medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC. KC is staging a fast-unto-death in Ilam district of eastern Nepal for past nine days. Whereas his health is deteriorating, the government has not made any effort to begin conversations with him. Organising a press conference in Kathmandu on Thursday, Thapa, who once served the country as the Minister for Health and mediated the conversation between the two sides, demanded that the Prime Minister issue an order to put on hold the National Medical Education Bill and make corrections as demanded by Dr KC. Dr KC has demanded that the Bill be presented in Parliament, duly following an agreement the government signed with him earlier. Thapa claimed Dr KC was neither a communist nor a Nepali Congress supporter; hence his voice should be respected. “Dr KC does not have any vested interest. While we need hundreds like him, is the government ready to kill him?” Published on January 17th, Thursday, 2019 3:37 PM 
Kathmandu, January 17 The Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee on Thursday unanimously endorsed two names recommended by the government for Nepal’s ambassadors to various countries. A meeting of the Committee held today endorsed the names of Deepak Adhikari proposed for France and Ganesh Prasad Dhakal proposed for Thailand. Both are working as joint secretaries at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently. Not a single complaint was filed against them at the committee. Earlier, the government had recommended five career diplomats to head Nepal’s diplomatic missions abroad. The three–Durga Prasad Bhandari nominated for Kuwait, Bhrigu Dhungana nominated for Canada, and Mani Prasad Bhattarai nominated for the United Nations in Geneva–will undergo the hearing in the next meeting of the committee. The three others have also not received any complaint. Hence, it is almost certain that they will also get the unanimous approval.   Published on January 17th, Thursday, 2019 3:21 PM 
Kathmandu, January 17 Records at the Ministry of Finance show that the government collected 55 per cent of estimated annual revenue in the first six months of the current fiscal year. It suggests that the government can easily achieve the revenue target set for the year. According to the Ministry, the government collected Rs 520 billion from mid-July, 2018 to mid-January, 2019. Of the collected revenue, Rs 244 billion was the jurisdiction of the federal government; whereas Rs 275 billion has to be shared with provincial and local governments as well. Despite the positive figures of revenue collection, the data about spending are dismal. The government spent just around 18 per cent of the development budget allocated for the year. The government had allocated Rs 355 billion for infrastructure development, but only Rs 55 billion has been spent so far. It means the government will face a pressure to exhaust the fund in next six months. Published on January 17th, Thursday, 2019 3:04 PM 
Kathmandu, January 17 At least seven persons died after a passenger bus fell off the road in Kusma, the headquarters of Parbat district, in western Nepal on Thursday morning. The bus (Ga 1 Kha 6108) heading towards Narayangadh of Chitwan from Beni of Myagdi district skidded off the road in Malghunga, Kusma-1, according to police. The victims are yet to be identified. Officials supervising rescue works say 31 passengers have sustained injuries. Five of them are serious. Whereas two of the serious passengers have been airlifted to Kathmandu’s Grande International Hospital, a request has been made to the Nepal Army to airlift remaining three, according to Janak Raj Paudel, mayor of Baglung Municipality in neighbouring Baglung district. Other injured have been treated at Dhaulagiri Zonal Hospital in Baglung. Some of them have been referred to Pokhara-based Manipal Teaching Hospital. Causes of the accident are not immediately ascertained. Published on January 17th, Thursday, 2019 12:11 PM 
 Kathmandu, January 16 Police in Bardiya district of midwestern Nepal on Wednesday afternoon opened fire to nab a murder suspect. Yubaraj Giri, who has been accused of murdering Deepak Singh Thakuri, in Kohalpur of neighbouring Banke district last week, has been arrested, according to police. Police had arrested another suspect Bharat Shahi few days back. Shahi had told police about Giri’s involvement in the case. Polie say the security personnel had to open fire as Giri tried to escape the scene. The Kohalpur-based Area Police Office had mobilised a team under the command of DSP Ramesh Bahadur Singh to search Giri. DIG Pitambar Adhikari, Province 5 police chief, says the bullet hit Giri’s foot. His condition is normal, and is undergoing treatment at Kohalpur Teaching Hospital, according to police. Further investigation is underway. Published on January 16th, Wednesday, 2019 3:33 PM 
Kathmandu, January 16 The government of Nepal says the amount of foreign development aid the country received in the last fiscal year, 2017/18, increased by 16 per cent from the amount of previous year. The development aid report made public by the Ministry of Finance on Wednesday mentions that the government received USD 1.623 billion as development support from bilateral and multilateral donor agencies. The amount was USD 1.395 billion in the previous year. Of the total support, 50.5 per cent is loan whereas 35.1 per cent is grant, according to the report. The rest 14.4 per cent is technical support. The Ministry has observed that the loan assistance has increased, but the technical support decreased. Around 78 per cent of the support was received to the national budget system against 73 per cent of the previous year. The World Bank and the United States have been identified as the biggest multilateral and bilateral donor agencies respectively. Published on January 16th, Wednesday, 2019 3:13 PM 
Kathmandu, January 16 The government will soon introduce a new law according to which people are fined upto Rs 300,000 if they keep arable land uncultivated for three years regularly. The government had registered the new Land Use Bill in Parliament for discussion and endorsement recently, introducing stricter provisions on land governance. The fine will be imposed if the owners keep more than two thirds of their land uncultivated continuously for three years. However, the owners can skip the fine if they inform concerned local governments citing valid reasons for failing to cultivate the land. Meanwhile, the bill has categorised land into 10 types. The categories include agricultural land, residential land, commercial land, industrial land, forest last, mineral land, water resources, land of public use, site of cultural and archaeological importance, and other sectors as specified by the government. The law will require local, provincial and federal governments to prepare a land use map of the area under their jurisdiction and develop appropriate plans. Published on January 16th, Wednesday, 2019 11:17 AM 
 Kathmandu, January 16 After they defeated the hosts, Thailand, by nine wickets in the final group stage match held in Bangkok on Wednesday, Nepal have elevated to the semifinal of the Women T20 Smash, 2019. Nepal had already secured their seminal berth after three straight wins, and their victory in the fourth match made them the topper of Group ‘A’. In the match played this morning, Nepal achieved the meagre target of 20 runs in just 3.3 overs by losing a wicket. Mamata Kumari Chaudhary scored eight runs for Nepal, followed by eight runs of Neri Thapa and two of Doli Bhatta. In the first innings, the hosts won the toss and elected to bat. They were restricted to 19 runs by Nepal. In its first three matches, Nepal defeated China, Malaysia and UAE. Now in the semifinal, they will face the second position team of Group ‘B’ with a hope to enter the final. Published on January 16th, Wednesday, 2019 10:54 AM 
Kathmandu, January 16 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said the government is in the process of building a ‘safe nation’. In a message issued on Wednesday on the occasion of the 21st National Earthquake Safety Day, he said “We are into a campaign to construct safe houses, school buildings and settlements. We will build all structures that are earthquake resilient.” Referring to the devastating earthquake of April 2015, PM Oli said the government had arranged for reconstructing safe settlements for the quake survivors currently residing in public lands. “The government has brought into effect the Integrated Working Procedure for Subsidised Credit 2018, through which those quake survivors unable to start reconstruction of their houses for want of adequate funds can seek for concessional loans up to Rs 300,000. The process to provide additional Rs 50,000 grant and technical aid to those senior citizens and children affected by the quake to rebuild their earthquake resistant houses has started.” In a bid to make reconstruction sustainable, local governments were provided with resources and the responsibility to reconstruct archaeological structures damaged by the quake, and ancient originality had been taken into account in the process, read the message. “The government is always committed to adopting preparedness for natural disasters and dealing with post-earthquake risks.” RSS Published on January 16th, Wednesday, 2019 10:18 AM 
 Ilam, January 15 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC’s health is deteriorating and his treatment at the District Hospital in Ilam, where he is on a hunger strike for the last seven days, will soon become impossible, doctors say. Doctors say that KC, who began his 16th fast on Wednesday after the government tabled the controversial medical education bill in Parliament, should be taken to an ICU, but the hospital in Ilam does not have such a unit. They say that Dr KC needs to be taken to Birtamod, Dharan, Biratnagar or Kathmandu. “Dr KC has contracted pneumonia and his immunity is deteriorating. But Dr KC does not want to move an inch from his bed, neither does he want any medication,” KC’s aide Dharma Gautam told Onlinekhabar. He added that Dr KC started his fast at a private house in Fungling, but he reluctantly agreed to get admitted at the District Hospital on Monday. The last time Dr KC went on a hunger strike in Jumla, police used force to bring him to Kathmandu as his treatment had become impossible there. Dr KC, meanwhile, says he will not hold any talks with the government unless past agreements between him and the government are implemented. Published on January 15th, Tuesday, 2019 2:26 PM 
Kathmandu, January 15 Senior leaders of the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, say they are holding a meeting with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Tuesday, after they got a hint that the government was going to dissolve two hospitals named after the party leaders. The party suspends that the government is scrapping proposed Girija Prasad Koirala Respiratory Centre of Dulegaunda in Tanahun and Sushil Koirala Cancer Hospital of Banke as a recent Cabinet meeting did not approve the Ministry of Health’s proposal to keep them under the federal government. The party’s senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel had made the same request by organising a press conference on Monday. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister is yet to confirm his time for the meeting, according to sources at the Prime Minister’s secretariat in Baluwatar. However, they are hopeful that the meeting will take place by the evening today. “It’s not that he is not meeting them. But, the prime minister is busy,” an official says, “Time has not been fixed, but the meeting may take place by the evening.” Published on January 15th, Tuesday, 2019 11:18 AM 
 Kathmandu, January 15 Nepal Telecom Limited is all set to distribute cash bonus of Rs 55 for each share from its profit of the fiscal year 20171/18 to all of its shareholders. The 11th annual general meeting of the NT held on Monday unanimously approved the proposal for distributing cash bonus, shared the company’s spokesperson Prativa Baidya. An arrangement has been made to distribute cash bonus to the shareholders through NMB Bank from today. RSS Published on January 15th, Tuesday, 2019 10:30 AM 
Kathmandu, January 14 The national flag carrier, Nepal Airlines Corporation, is bringing back its Boeing aircraft ‘Gandaki’ after its successful maintenance in Malaysia. The Corporation says it has already sent a crew to Kuala Lumpur on Sunday and the aircraft will be brought back on Tuesday. The aircraft, with the call sign ACB 757, was in Malaysia for past two months after a problem surfaced in its thermal blanket. NAC spokesperson Nawa Raj Koirala informs that the Corporation is planning to sell the aeroplane at the earliest. However, it will be deployed in service till the sale. Officials say the Corporation has already finalised its price and sent related documents to the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation for the approval. Recent controversies about the purchase of two wide body Airbus aircraft have also affected the sale process, according to them.   Published on January 14th, Monday, 2019 2:57 PM 
Kathmandu, January 14 A trade union leader close to Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led Communist Party of Nepal has filed a writ petition at the Supreme Court demanding an order against the implementation of new Civil Servant Adjustment Ordinance. Amar Singh Oli in his writ has claimed that the ordinance is discriminatory. He argues that the new law favours higher level officials over lower ones, and stops career growth of some particular groups. Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers among others has been named defendant in the case. According to the court sources, the preliminary hearing will be held on Tuesday morning. Few other associations of the staff have also moved the court against the new law.     Published on January 14th, Monday, 2019 2:36 PM 
Janakpurdham, January 14 Secretary of the Province 2 Ministry for Industry, Tourism, Forest and Environment, Bidya Nath Jha, has been admitted to hospital after provincial Minister for Financial Issues and Planning, Bijaya Kumar Yadav, beat him up. Jha admitted himself to Janakpur-based Care Nursing Home few hours after the attack on Sunday. The Jha family has claimed the official has suffered injuries and bruises in face, right hand and waist. He has been claiming that the Minister called him to his office and thrashed yesterday afternoon. The Minister had put pressure on him to award a grant to an NGO close to him, and he resorted to the attack as he did not heed the undue order, Jha claimed. Meanwhile, the Provincial government has launched an investigation into the case. A three member panel under the leadership of Internal Affairs Minister Gyanendra Yadav has been formed. Published on January 14th, Monday, 2019 2:28 PM 
Kathmandu, January 13 Police in Lalitpur district say they have ‘rescued’ 16 persons whoÂ  were missing from Phulchoki forest of the district since Saturday evening. The youth, including 12 boys and four girls, had gone to the forest for recreation yesterday. As they did not return home till the evening, the families had informed police about their disappearance. Following the report, police had launched a search operation yesterday itself. SP Shekhar Khanal of Lalitpur Metropolitan Police Range says they were rescued from a point inside the forest, which is around 10 kilometres away from Godavari Bus Park. Police had mobilised seven teams in the search, according to Khanal. Published on January 13th, Sunday, 2019 3:11 PM 
Biratnagar, January 13 Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Bhanu Bhakta Dhakal says he is preparing a plan to make the country’s judiciary sector ‘pure’ and ‘sacred’. Speaking at an interaction programme organised by the Ministry in Biratnagar of Morang district on Sunday, Dhakal said the government was aware about ensuring people’s fundamental rights. He said the government was ready to amend laws if there was any weakness. In another context, the Minister said the government already approved the Supreme Court’s plan to recruit human resources to fill 1,339 vacant positions. Speaking at the function, Province 1 Law Minister Hikmat Kumar Karki stressed that laws should be comprehensible to members of the public to advance the society. He also said the government should carry out an awareness campaign at the local level to ensure effective implementation of laws. Published on January 13th, Sunday, 2019 2:44 PM 
Kathmandu, January 13 Apparently fearing that it is unlikely to meet the revenue collection target set for the first half of the current fiscal year, the government has put pressure on auto traders to pay customs for their imports and take their vehicles off the customs points immediately. The first half of the fiscal year is ending on Monday. Though the government has defended that it has ‘requested’ the traders to clear the duty at the earliest following existing laws, traders say they had never experienced such pressure in the past. Officials also claim the government is not much away from its target of Rs 192 billion. Director General at the Department of Customs, Toyam Ray, says the government has already collected Rs 185 billion. A trader, on the condition of anonymity, says the businesspersons are ready to cooperate with the government. He, however, says they too are in problem due to the liquidity crunch at banks. Published on January 13th, Sunday, 2019 2:32 PM 
 Dhading, January 13 Total 31 persons were injured in a road accident that took place this morning at Beni Ghat Rorang Rural Municipality-9 of Dhading district. The people were travelling on a passenger bus (Ba 2 Kha 4683) heading towards Bardiya from Kathmandu when it overturned at a turning near the Hugdi bridge, the Area Police Office in Gajuri said. The injured were rescued by locals and police and are undergoing treatment at the Highway Community Hospital in Malekhu and Gajuri Primary Health Centre. One of the injured is critical and the person has been sent to Kathmandu for further treatment. The bus was reportedly carrying 41 passengers. The highway that was obstructed for some time following the accident has opened now. RSS Published on January 13th, Sunday, 2019 12:07 PM 
 Butwal, January 13 A person died in a police firing in Shankarpur of Rupandehi district in southwestern Nepal on Saturday midnight. Police officials have claimed the victim was a member of a smuggling racket. SP Hridaya Thapa, Chief of the District Police Office, says police had opened fire after a gang of smugglers, riding motorbikes, attacked a patrolling team in Shankarpur, Siddhartha Nagar Municipality-10. Police constable Krishna Shrestha has sustained an injury in his left arm. Thapa claims the suspects had open fire first after police tried to stop them for a regular checking. He, however, does not reveal what the suspects were smuggling. The deceased who was shot in retaliation appears to be in his early 30s. His identity is yet to be ascertained. SP Thapa informs that he was injured in the firing, but breathed his last on the way to a nearby hospital. The body has been kept at the Bhim Hospital in Bhairahawa for postmortem.     Published on January 13th, Sunday, 2019 11:49 AM 
   Kathmandu, January 11 Nepal’s national women’s cricket team have left for Thailand to take part in the Women T20 Smash 2019 commencing Saturday. Total 10 teams are taking part in the tournament, which will run till January 19. The participating squads have been divided into two groups. Nepal, China, the United Arab Emirates, Malaysia and Thailand are in the group ‘A’ and Hong Kong, Thailand, Indonesia, Bhutan and Myanmar in the group ‘B’. Nepal will face China in their opening match tomorrow. Nepal’s team will be captained by Rubina Chhetrai. Sita Rana Magar (vice captain), Karuna Bhandari, Doli Bhatta, Mamata Kumari Chaudhary , Bindu Rawal, Sarita Magar and Neri Thapa, Indu Berma, Sonu Khadka, Arati Bidari, Kajal Shrestha, Roma Thapa and Kabita Kunwar are in the squad. Former national team cricketer Binod Das is the team’s coach. Published on January 11th, Friday, 2019 4:28 PM 
 Kathmandu, January 11 The Tribhuvan International Airport says it is expanding its nighttime service in domestic flights to tackle air traffic congestion. According to TIA officials, top airline companies including Buddha, Yeti and Shree will fly upto 25 aircraft from the airport between 6 pm and 9 pm everyday. Prior to this, domestic flights would stop after 6 pm. “Air traffic congestion during the day is quite high, which is why you see a lot of domestic flights being delayed. The evening flights will be beneficial for the passengers as they will not have to wait for longer duration at the airport,” shares TIA General Manager Raj Kumar Chhetri. The airport has started 10 to 12 flights in the evening, which mostly go to destination in the Terai region like Simara, Biratnagar, Bhairawa, Dhangadhi and Nepalgunj as these airports have a proper lighting system. There are plans to operate evening flights to Chandragadhi and Janakpur after upgrading the facilities at the airport. Chhetri also adds that fewer flights during the day mean that it would be easier to manage the air traffic.   Published on January 11th, Friday, 2019 3:24 PM 
Kathmandu, January 11 The Kathmandu Metropolitan City has accelerated its drive for city beautification by managing rampantly placed wires and cables alongside the streets. According to KMC Spokesperson Ishwor Man Dangol, the city beautification drive is emphatically gaining momentum now though it was initiated in November 2017. “The wires and cables installed by different agencies have eroded the beauty of the city so the concerned bodies have been urged not to install and extend the cables in a haphazard way,” Dangol says. Works have already been initiated to remove the wires installed haphazardly and only well-placed ones will be kept, he adds. The wires have been removed in and around Putalisadak, Pradarshani Marga, Lainchaur, Soaltee Mode and the places around the President’s Office in the first phase. The management of the wires has become inevitable from public security and beatification perspectives, the local government states. Likewise, the KMC also has paid attention to removing poles installed on the streets and cutting down branches of old trees alongside the road. RSS Published on January 11th, Friday, 2019 3:18 PM 
Butwal, January 11 Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation, Rabindra Adhikari, says the promotion of the birthplace of Lord Buddha, Lumbini, in the international market has not been sufficient yet. Adhikari has therefore requested the Lumbini Development Trust and local tourism entrepreneurs to organise at least one special function in the region so as to attract foreign tourists. Speaking at a function organised to inaugurate the Buddhist International Travel Mart on Friday morning, the Minister said, “Nepal is one of the best countries to travel to due to regional and natural heritage,Â  geography and biodiversity. The more we promote, the more tourists we receive.” He reiterated that the government would easily achieve the target of welcoming two million foreign tourists in 2020. Adhikari claimed that government was working to attract foreign investment in Nepal’s tourism sector. Published on January 11th, Friday, 2019 3:11 PM 
Kathmandu, January 10 The government of Nepal says it is planning to establish a museum, exhibiting various goods and objects related to the magnitude 7.6 earthquake that rattled the country on April 25, 2015 and its aftershocks. Sushil Gyewali, Chief Executive Officer of the National Reconstruction Authority, the government body to supervise and lead post-earthquake reconstruction works, claims that the museum will be of international standard. Speaking at a meeting of the Sustainable Development and Good Governance Committee of Parliament on Thursday, Gyewali said the museum would be located at the premises of Dharahara, a multistorey view tower that the government was constructing beside the similar structure that collapsed during the quake, in Sundhara of Kathmandu. Likewise, the Authority would establish earthquake memorial parks in Gorkha and Sindhupalchok districts, two most hit by the quake and the aftershocks, according to him. In another context, the top official assured that the Authority would complete all reconstruction works within next two years. Published on January 10th, Thursday, 2019 3:20 PM 
Kathmandu, January 10 Minister for Communications and Information Technology Gokul Prasad Banskota has warned of ‘seeking options’ if officials of the Nepal CommunicationsÂ  Authority fail to ‘correct’ their working style. An angry minister carried out a ‘surprise inspection’ of the regulatory body on Thursday morning and directed the officials to improve their performance. “Please present your suggestions in writing if the Ministry has obstructed your job,” he told the officials including Acting Chairman Purushottam Khanal, “But, your current performance will not work as you have to be a major component of the government’s campaign to make a digital Nepal.” “Will you correct yourself or shall we explore other options,” he questioned the leadership. During the visit, the Minister raised multiple questions on various activities of the Authority. As the officials could not respond to his queries on the spot on time, he has told them to submit related documents to the Ministry by Friday afternoon, according to sources. Published on January 10th, Thursday, 2019 3:09 PM 
Kathmandu, January 10 Newly appointed Executive Director of Nepal Oil Corporation, Surendra Paudel, says he will restructure the government run fuel distribution monopoly. Paudel was appointed to the top position through an open competition earlier this week. Speaking at a function organised to mark the 48th anniversary of the Corporation, Paudel said, “The Corporation cannot remain in the current status. I will reform it.” He was of the view that the government appointed him for reforms in the Corporation. In another context, Paudel defended frequent changes in the price of petroleum products, informing the Corporation had been paying billions of rupees as tax to the government every year. He added that the Corporation also generated Rs 27 billion for the Budhigandaki Hydropower Project. Published on January 10th, Thursday, 2019 2:57 PM 
Kathmandu, January 10 Nepal’s Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali is leaving for the Indian capital of New Delhi to participate in the fourth edition of the Raisina Dialogue. The Dialogue is a multilateral conference to be held in New Delhi every year since 2016. The Foreign Minister will address the forum on today itself, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Being organised by the Observer Research Foundation in association with the Ministry of External Affairs of India, the theme of this year’s Raisina Dialogue is ‘A World Re-order: New Geometrics, Fluid Partnerships, Uncertain Outcomes‘. During his stay in New Delhi, Gyawali will also hold meetings with high level officials of the Indian government. He will return home on Friday.   Published on January 10th, Thursday, 2019 10:14 AM 
 Kathmandu, January 9 The Department of Customs is tightening rules about what goods can be brought to Nepal from other countries without any taxes. Chuda Raj Sapkota, head of the Customs Office at the Tribhuvan International Airport, says people should look at the customs guidelines before bringing any items to Nepal via the country’s sole international airport. He shares that the items which are brought without following custom guidelines will be seized. The government has also imposed customs tax on various items being brought from abroad. The Dpartment has recently published a new list of items that will be taxed and those which will be exempted (see the infograph above). The Department has been seizing items which do not meet their regulation. “Everyone wants to bring various things from abroad. If the people bring items which do not violate our guidelines, they will have no problem,” says Sapkota. Published on January 9th, Wednesday, 2019 3:32 PM 
Kathmandu, January 9 Speaker of the House of Representatives, Krishna Bahadur Mahara, on Wednesday told the government to respond to questions of the lawmakers during any parliamentary meeting. The Speaker’s ruling comes three days after he restricted lawmakers of the main opposition Nepali Congress from questioning Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli after his address to the House meeting. The lawmakers had obstructed the meeting after that. As the opposition planned to obstruct the House meeting today as well, Mahara issued the ruling in their favour. As soon as the meeting began today, the main opposition party’s chief whip Bal Krishna Khand demanded that the prime minister and ministers be responsible to Parliament all the time. He also stated that it was the Speaker’s duty to make them responsible, which forced Mahara to issue the ruling. Published on January 9th, Wednesday, 2019 2:56 PM 
Kathmandu, January 9 Japan’s Minister for Foreign Affairs, Taro Kono, is arriving in Kathmandu on a two-day official visit to Nepal on Wednesday afternoon. An 18 member delegation under the Minister’s delegation is visiting Nepal upon an invitation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs says the visit will focus on matters of bilateral concerns and mutual interest. In particular, the two counterparts are scheduled to hold talks on launching a new mechanism for the migration of Nepali workers to Japan for employment. ‘ Recently, Japan has forwarded a concept note to Nepal, proposing to facilitate the recruitment of Nepali workers at the government level. Meanwhile, the two ministers will sign an aviation agreement tonight after the conclusion of a formal talk. They will also announce the establishment of a bilateral consultative mechanism to promote mutual cooperation. During the trip, the guest will pay courtesy calls on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli.   Published on January 9th, Wednesday, 2019 11:14 AM 
Kathmandu, January 9 The official international broadcaster of Czech Republic has reported that the Czech government has fined six ‘foreign universities’ for operating in the country without obtaining required approval. The report claims the institutions were in operation targeting southeast Asian students, mainly those from India, Bangladesh and Nepal. Two of the six institutions have been charged with additional criminal complaints for defrauding the foreign students, according to the Radio Prague report. More than 80 students from the three countries had filed individual or joint complaints against these institutions. These two institutions had already collected tuition fees from the students of India, Bangladesh and Nepal before they were granted the visa. Later, they denied refunding tuition fees to the students, according to the country’s Deputy Minister for Education Pavel Doleček. He suggests foreign students check the list of accredited foreign educational institutions in the country on the Ministry’s website. The Ministry has denied publishing names of the institutions as the investigation is still underway. Published on January 9th, Wednesday, 2019 11:06 AM 
 Baglung, January 9 Three children were killed in a fire at Tara Village of Tarakhola Rural Municipality in the district on Tuesday afternoon. The deceased are local Dil Bahadur Gharti’s six-year-old daughter, Ritu, and five-year-old son Aayush, and Rudra Bahadur Roka’s six-year-old son Ronish, said ward chair Jit Bahadur Khatri. The children were playing at a cowshed of Yam Bahadur Khatri when the cowshed caught fire. The cause behind the fire was yet to be confirmed, Khatri added. According to the District Police Office Chief DSP Deepak Regmi, the cattle were safe as they were taken out for grazing in the afternoon. Detailed report of the loss was yet to be received, he added. RSS Published on January 9th, Wednesday, 2019 9:23 AM 
Taulihawa, January 8 The Lumbini Development Trust says it will expedite excavation and exploration works in ancient Tilaurakot town in Lumbini region, the birthplace of Lord Buddha. It is believed that King Suddhodan, father of Gautam Buddha, had a palace in the town. With the financial assistance of UNESCO, the excavation works of this year began in the historical site. The excavation around the Kanthak Stupa located outside the eastern gate of Tilaurakot palace site would be accomplished this year, informed Vice-Chairperson of Lumbini Development Trust, Vikshu Maitreya. This year, excavation works would be undertaken around the Samayamai Temple, Madhya Samrachana premises and Kanthak Stupa within the Tilaurakot Palace area, said Chief of Department of Archaeology, Ram Bahadur Kunwar. RSS Published on January 8th, Tuesday, 2019 11:24 AM 
Kathmandu, January 8 The government of Nepal has decided to ‘sack’ its ambassador to Australia, Lucky Sherpa, after a controversy about her alleged involvement in human trafficking activities mounted. Few weeks back, Wonchhu Sherpa, who was deployed as a driver for the ambassador in Canberra, had told a television programme in Nepal that not only the ambassador but some other members of her family were also involved in illegal activities that could be deemed human trafficking. He said they collected money from foreign job aspirants assuring lucrative jobs, but did not meet the promise. Following the accusation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had summoned Sherpa to Kathmandu and formed a three member team to look into the issue. As recommended by the panel, the Cabinet meeting held on Monday night decided to sack Sherpa, sources inform. Media reports had stated that the probe panel had sought a clarification from Sherpa. What Sherpa told the committee, however, was not immediately known. Various political parties and organisations including the main opposition Nepali Congress had been demanding that the government immediately take an action against her after the investigation. Meanwhile, the Cabinet also removed National Investigation Department chief, Dilip Regmi, and appointed Ganesh Adhikari as his successor.   Published on January 8th, Tuesday, 2019 11:10 AM 
Kathmandu, January 8 A task force comprising nine central leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party formed to finalise the model for the party’s lower committees and sister organisations, unifying respective organisations of formerly CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre, is unlikely to meet its January 14 deadline. The task force has been unable to perform the assignment due to busy schedules of its key members, according to a leader. Of nine members of the task force, three are members of the federal government whereas one is a provincial chief minister. Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa heads the team, which includes Energy Minister Barsha Man Pun, Transportation Minister Raghu Bir Mahaseth, and Province 5 Chief Minister Shankar Pokhrel. Other members are Bishnu Paudel, Surendra Pandey, Bedu Ram Bhusal, Yogesh Bhattarai and Lekh Raj Bhatta. Earlier, two chairmen of the party–KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal–had directed the panel to submit its report by January 14 so that all committees would be formed by mid-February. Published on January 8th, Tuesday, 2019 10:53 AM 
Kathmandu, January 7 Newly appointed ambassadors of four countries have presented their letters of credence to President Bidya Devi Bhandari at a special ceremony organised at Sheetal Niwas on Monday. The ambassadors of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the People’s Republic of China, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Kingdom of Sweden to Nepal, respectively Jo Yong Man, Hou Yanqi, Musaid bin Sulaiman M Al-Mawany and Klas Molin, presented their credentials. The ambassadors of DPR Korea, China and Saudi Arabia are the resident ambassadors to Nepal while the Swedish ambassador is non-resident. Present at the ceremony were Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, Chief of Army Staff Purna Chandra Thapa, Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, Secretary at the Office of the President Binod KC, the Chief of Protocol Deepak Adhikari among high government officials. Before this, the ambassadors were taken to the President’s Office from Hotel Shangri-La on horse-drawn carriage with special honour. RSS Published on January 7th, Monday, 2019 4:08 PM 
Kathmandu, January 7 Senior leader of the ruling Nepal Communist Party and former prime minister Madhav Kumar Nepal has clarified that he is not connected to Christianity, but respects all religions equally. Nepal says he participated in the controversial Asia Pacific Summit in November-December last year in order to seek international support and solidarity to the government’s Prosperous Nepal: Happy Nepali campaign. The leader presented his clarification at a meeting of the International Relations Committee in the House of Representatives today after Nepali Congress leader Divya Mani Rajbhandari sought his response. Nepal also reminded Rajbhandari that some Nepali Congress leaders including its founder BP Koirala, Ganesh Man Singh, Krishna Prasad Bhattarai, Girija Prasad Koirala, Sushil Koirala and Sher Bahadur Deuba also attended the summit at different points of time. He said rumours were made against him over the Summit with an ill intention. Published on January 7th, Monday, 2019 3:11 PM 
Kathmandu, January 7 Some parts of the country including the Kathmandu Valley received light rainfall on Monday morning due to impact of the westerly wind. The precipitaition caused temperature to plummet further, increasing cold. The Meteorological Forecasting Division has said that light to moderate snowfall occurred in the highlands and mountains today. Phulchoki and Chandragiri, the high hill areas around the Kathmandu Valley, witnessed light snowfall today. The weather throughout the country today is predicted to remain partly to generally cloudy with light rainfall at a few places. However, weather will improve after the evening, Division’s senior meteorologist Shanti Kandel said. According to the Division, the western and eastern hilly parts are likely to see partial cloudy sky and the sky in remaining parts will be fair. RSS Published on January 7th, Monday, 2019 2:35 PM 
Kathmandu, January 7 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC has threatened to go on hunger strike yet again if the Parliamentary Education and Health Committee didn’t amend the medical education draft bill prepared by the committe’s sub-panel. Dr KC’s warning comes a day after the sub-committee submitted its draft proposal to the committee. According to sources, the report does not include the ‘Mathema Commission‘ in the preamble– as was agreed by the government during negotiations with Dr KC during his previous hunger strike. During a press conference on Monday morning, Dr KC said that draft didn’t meet some of his demands. “The chairman of the committee had told us that our demands would be met which is why I postponed my hunger strike. I now request the committee to amend the draft proposal at the earliest or else I will be forced to stage a hunger strike again,” said Dr KC. Published on January 7th, Monday, 2019 11:41 AM 
Kathmandu, January 7 Nepal Bar Association (NBA) says Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana’s decision to deny him his rightful place in the judiciary is not only against the spirit of the constitution but also against the principle of natural justice. In a statement, the association said its serious attention has been drawn towards Rana’s decision against Joshee, the senior-most justice in the apex court, who was denied the Chief Justice position by the parliamentary hearing committee. “The act of denying bench to the senior-most justice is not only anti-constitutional and unlawful but also is against the principle of natural justice,” said NBA general secretary Khamb Bahadur Khati.  The association has demanded that Rana immediately withdraw his illegal decision and perform in a way that safeguards independent judiciary, rule of law, human rights and justice. “The judiciary and the Chief Justice should not work under pressure from anyone,” the release reads. Published on January 7th, Monday, 2019 11:36 AM 
 Kathmandu, January 6 Nepali cricketer Sandeep Lamichhane has claimed two wickets for his side Sylhet Sixers in his Bangladesh Premier League debut against the Comilla Victorians on Sunday. Lamichhane conceded 16 runs in the four overs taking two crucial wickets and bowling 12 dot balls to give his team the upper hand. His first victim was Pakistan’s Shoaib Malik, who was caught at mid-wicket trying to take the spinner on. In the next over, he claimed the wicket of Bangladeshi cricketer Anamul Haque who was a victim of Lamichhane’s disguised googly. Haque tried to slog sweep Lamichhane but missed it completely losing his stumps in the process. However, Lamichhane’s impressive work with the ball was in vain as his side lost to the Victorians by four wickets. The star spinner was signed by the Sixers after his impressive runs in various T20 competitions in the world. He has joined the Sixers after impressing the Big Bash League in the past month. Lamichhane will be back in Australia to play the Big Bash League after the Bangladeshi league draws to a close in the first week of February. Published on January 6th, Sunday, 2019 3:52 PM 
Pokhara, January 6 Speaker of the Gandaki Provincial Assembly has stated that he will not administer the oath of office and secrecy to Assembly member Rajeev Gurung aka Deepak Manange saying it will be illegal. Notorious gangster Manange had won the provincial legislative seat from Manang district during the 2017 polls as an independent candidate. He was in judicial custody for past few months, but was recently released by a Supreme Court order. Following the release, he had filed an application demanding that he be sworn in. However, a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee of the Assembly held today decided against his application. Speaker Netra Nath Adhikari said administering the oath to Manange would be illegal as he was convicted of murder by the Patan High Court. Meanwhile, the winter session of Assembly is beginning in Pokhara on Monday. Published on January 6th, Sunday, 2019 2:59 PM 
Kathmandu, January 6 Lawmakers of the main opposition Nepali Congress on Sunday chanted slogans in protest of the government in a meeting of the House of Representatives after Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara barred them from asking questions to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. Prime Minister Oli had addressed the House meeting today. After around one hour of the address, the opposition lawmakers drew the attention of the Speaker, seeking time to ask questions to the PM. In response, Mahara said there was no time available for the question and answer as the PM just briefed the House about activities of the government. Then, the lawmakers created noises to obstructed the meeting. Following that, Mahara announced that a limited number of the lawmakers would be allowed to ask the questions and asked Minendra Rijal to raise his concerns. Rijal said his party would not agree on the Speaker’s plan and demanded that all lawmakers wishing to question the PM be given a chance. Mahara, however, did not pay any heed and said no one would be allowed to question. The opposition lawmakers continued their sloganeering as the Speaker tried to move ahead with the previous schedule. Following the hullabaloo, Mahara put off the meeting for 15 minutes. Published on January 6th, Sunday, 2019 2:46 PM 
Kathmandu, January 6 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has accused the main opposition Nepali Congress party of provoking civil servants to come to the streets against the Staff Adjustment Ordinance that the government introduced to facilitate the reshuffle of staff at federal, provincial and local levels. He defends that the new ordinance is better than the bill prepared by the previous Nepali Congress-led government. Addressing a meeting of the House of Representatives on Sunday afternoon, the Prime Minister said the government could not have been able to utilise competence of experienced civil servants and would have lost Rs 50-60 billion in expenses in the bill drafted by the previous government had been enacted. Oli claimed provisions of the ordinance were in line with an agreement signed with the official trade union of government staff. Published on January 6th, Sunday, 2019 2:14 PM 
Kathmandu, January 4 The Public Accounts Committee in the House of Representatives on Friday failed to endorse the report of its subcommittee on alleged irregularities in the purchase of two wide body aircraft for the national flag carrier, Nepal Airlines Corporation. The Committee failed to make any concrete decision after some lawmakers of the ruling Nepal Communist Party objected to the recommendations of action the report suggested for siting Civil Aviation Minister Rabindra Adhikari. Suspecting that the report was politically biased, some lawmakers also demanded that the report be rewritten. However, there was unanimous agreement that the deal was faulty and it led to an embezzlement of millions of rupees. Despite objection of some lawmakers, the subcommittee members representing the NCP had also defended the report claiming they wrote what they found to be true. Most members of the main opposition Nepali Congress also supported the report. Following the indecision, the PAC Chairman Bharat Kumar Shah adjourned the meeting till 11 am on Monday. Published on January 4th, Friday, 2019 3:01 PM 
Kathmandu, January 4 Following complaints of sexual abuse and forced disappearance of his followers, Nepal Police has raided controversial religious leader Ram Bahadur Bomjon’s ashram in Sindhupalchok district. A team comprising personnel of the District Police Office and the Central Investigation Bureau raided his ashram in Badegaun on Friday morning. “We don’t want to release more details, but we have raided his ashram,” said a police official. The District Court had given the police a permission to search the ashram on Thursday. Families of Phulmaya Rumba and Sancha Lal Waiba of Makawanpur, Suresh Ale Magar of Bara, and Chunmo Dolma Tamang of Nuwakot had filed separate police complaints against Bomjon claiming he was responsible for their disappearance. Before the controversy, Bomjon, also called ‘Little Buddha’ by many, had come to the limelight in his teenage after he ‘meditated’ for months without food, water and sleep.   Published on January 4th, Friday, 2019 2:47 PM 
 Kathmandu, January 4 A high-level team of Italian contractors CMC, which includes its CEO Paolo Porcelli, is coming to Nepal to hold discussions with the government regarding Melamchi Water Supply Project. The team is coming to Nepal after the government asked the officials to come to Kathmandu to hold talks regarding the future of the project. No work has been done in the project since staff of CMC were caught leaving Kathmandu few weeks back. The government, after the Italian Embassy ensured their return, had let the CMC staff leave for Christmas and New Year. Project officials now assume that the contractor will ask the government to pay it the due amount as a precondition to resume work. Officials also add that talks are being held internally on how to deal with this situation and complete the project as soon as possible. CMC’s Nepali subcontractors have also not come back to work demanding payment for their earlier work. Project officials speculate that the CMC will ask the government to pay their Nepali subcontractors so that works on the project continue. Published on January 4th, Friday, 2019 2:29 PM 
Kathmandu, January 3 Contrary to its own decision of cutting down public holidays, the government is preparing to add 13 public holidays for the next Bikram Sambat year that begins in mid-April. A panel consisting Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa, Culture Minister Rabindra Adhikari and Urban Development Minister Mohammed Istiyak Rai has proposed increasing the number of holidays owing to suggestions from various groups and communities. The government had cancelled 12 public holidays as it issued the holiday calendar for this year (BS 2075). If the Council of Ministers endorses the proposal floated by three ministers, there will be public holidays on the following festivals next year: Published on January 3rd, Thursday, 2019 4:44 PM 
Hetaunda, January 3 The Province 3 government on Thursday has decided to increase the pay and perks of members of executives of municipalities and rural municipalities under its jurisdiction by almost 100 per cent. A meeting of the Council of Ministers held in the provincial capital, Hetaunda, today made the decision. Following the decision, a member of the executive of the metropolitan city will get Rs 15,000 a month. It was Rs 8,000 earlier. Once the new decision comes into effect, the pay will be Rs 13,000, Rs 11,000 and Rs 7,000 for each member of the executive of sub-metropolitan cities, municipalities and rural municipalities respectively. They were receiving Rs 7,500, Rs 7,000 and Rs 6,000 a month respectively till today. Meanwhile, the meeting appointed Nepal Communist Party leader Jagannath Thapaliya as the political advisor to the Chief Minister Dor Mani Poudel. He was the chairman of the Chitwan district committee of then CPN-UML. Published on January 3rd, Thursday, 2019 4:15 PM 
Kathmandu, January 3 Minister for Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation, Barsha Man Pun, has discussed possibilities of cooperation for the development of energy sector in Nepal with the United States Ambassador Randy Berry. The diplomat had gone to the Minister’s office in Singhadarbar on Thursday to discuss various issues of bilateral concern. During the meeting, the Minister appealed to the diplomat to help Nepal get more foreign investment as the country now had an appropriate environment for investors following the establishment of a stable government. Likewise, the two also discussed energy projects under the US government’s Millennium Challenge Corporation, according to the ministry sources. Pun said the government was committed to completing the projects on time. In response, the Ambassador said the US was interested in investing in Nepal’s energy sector. Published on January 3rd, Thursday, 2019 4:02 PM 
Kathmandu, January 3 Nepal Bureau of Standards and Metrology has taken action against 18 construction material manufacturing companies for producing substandard goods. The Bureau states that it has taken action against the companies manufacturing goods without meeting the quality and standard in the current fiscal year. Industries facing the action include Ghirahi Cement Pvt Ltd in Dang, Narayani Micropipe Industry Pvt Ltd in Bara, Nawa Nepal Plastic Industry, Narayani Cement Industry Pvt Ltd in Bara, Mega Cement Pvt Ltd in Jhapa, Laxmi Steels Pvt Ltd in Nawalparasi, Kathmandu Steels Pvt Ltd in Nawalparasi and Ganapati Vanaspati Pvt Ltd in Bara. Also facing action are International Cement Pvt Ltd in Birgunj, Gorakhkali Cement Industries Pvt Ltd in Jhapa, Annapurna Cement Pvt Ltd in Morang, Golden Battery Pvt Ltd in Morang, Sugam Manufacture in Kathmandu, MJP Cement Pvt Ltd in Kapilvastu, Ganapati Cement Pvt Ltd in Kapilvastu, Hongsi Cement Industry in Nawalparasi, Arghakhanchi Cement Industry in Rupandehi and Shubha Shree Jagadamba Cement Industry in Bara. The licence of most of the companies facing action has been suspended and the sale and distribution of manufactured goods stopped. The Bureau has written to the companies facing action to produce quality products, failing which their licenses would be annulled. RSS Published on January 3rd, Thursday, 2019 2:39 PM 
Betrawati, January 3 Power generation from Trishuli Hydropower Centre in Nuwakot district has disrupted following a fire in the power house on Wednesday evening. With the fire, a total of 53 megawatt including 21 megawatt from Trishuli Hydropower Project and 14 megawatt from Devighat Hydropower Project has been disconnected from the national transmission line. Chief of Trishuli Hydropower Project, Tara Dutta Bhatta, said that a generator of 6.6 KV of Breaker No. 6 was completely destroyed in the fire that happened following the excessive heat generation in the electricity transmitter. Bhatta added that around 10 million rupees would be required to repair the damaged equipment while around a week was expected to take to resume the power transmission from the Centre. Earlier, fires had occurred on July 10 and November 24, 2018 in the power house. RSS Published on January 3rd, Thursday, 2019 9:56 AM 
Kathmandu, January 2 Sankata Club have beaten Three Star Club in a significant match of the Martyrs Memorial A Division League on Wednesday, securing the second position in the ongoing national league. Both the teams, however, are yet to play their respective last matches. Manang Marsyangdi Club have already secured their first position in the league table. In the match played at the ANFA Complex today, Sankta scored two goals against one of Three Star. Though Three Star led the game initially with Anjan Bista’s goal in the 30th minute, Sankata scored an equaliser few minutes before the end of the first half. Utilising the penalty, Sankata doubled the margin in the 61st minute. Amit Tamang scored both goals for the victors.   Published on January 2nd, Wednesday, 2019 4:55 PM 
Kathmandu, January 2 The Supreme Court has ordered the government to effectively implement the free visa free ticket provision introduced for the migration of Nepali workers for foreign employment. The order tells the government to ensure that there are adequate laws and mechanisms to implement the provision. A division bench of justices Purushottam Bhandari and Kedar Prasad Chalise issued the order in the name of government on Monday, directing the decision made around two years ago be effectively executed. Advocates Hari Phuyal, Barun Ghimire, Anurag Devkota and Ramesh Badal had pleaded for the writ filed by an organisation. Earlier in September 2017, the apex court had issued a show cause notice on the issue. Published on January 2nd, Wednesday, 2019 3:41 PM 
 Kathmandu, January 2 Nepal is preparing to sign a memorandum of understanding with Japan so as to facilitate the employment of Nepali workers there. As communications between the two governments progressed, the Tokyo government has sent a draft of agreement to Kathmandu seeking feedback of Nepal government, according to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security. The source informs that the Tokyo government has told Kathmandu that it has selected Nepal as a source country for foreign workers, and presented its ideas about their recruitment and migration. Nepal has just begun studying the document and it will present its opinions on the issue during a bilateral meeting of the officials to be held in Kathmandu after two weeks, the source informs. A technical team consisting of labour officials will arrive in Kathmandu after few days for the meeting. Recently, the Japanese government has announced a new policy on the recruitment of foreign workers. Published on January 2nd, Wednesday, 2019 3:24 PM 
Kathmandu, January 2 A subcommittee under the Public Accounts Committee in the House of Representatives formed to investigate into suspected irregularities in the purchase of two wide body aircraft for the national flag carrier submitted its report to the Committee, recommending action against Civil Aviation Minister Rabindra Adhikari among others. The panel has recommended that the government immediately suspend Home Secretary Prem Kumar Rai and Civil Aviation Secretary Krishna Prasad Devkota. Rai had served a term at the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation before Devkota. Likewise, the report says Managing Director of the Nepal Airlines Corporation, Sugat Ratna Kansakar, should also be suspended. The panel has recommended action against Minister Adhikari as he ‘lied to’ the parliamentary committee as he was questioned about the issue. Likewise, he failed to carry out his responsibility satisfactorily, the report claims. Similar actions have been recommended for Adhikari’s predecessors Jitendra Narayan Dev and Jeevan Bahadur Shahi and Rai’s predecessor Shankar Prasad Adhikari as they did not take responsibility of the irregularities. Published on January 2nd, Wednesday, 2019 12:36 PM 
 KP Sharma Oli addresses a function in KathmanduKathmandu, January 1 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says the Nirmala Pant murder case is throwing up suprises as investigators fail to hunt down the perpatrators of the crime. Prime Minister Oli, who was speaking at a programme in Kathmandu, said that police were successful in arresting culprits of other rape cases, but Nirmala’s case was proving to be difficult. “We see that police made some errors during the early days of the investigation. We have deployed another team of police officers and spies to find out why investigators made such errors,” said the Prime Minister. “The surprising bit is that many people have come up admitting to have committed the crime, but their DNA does not match with the culprit,” he said. “Nepal Police is successful in almost 95 per cent of the cases,” PM Oli reminded. “Police have not been able to investigate the case freely. We will find the perpetrators and bring them to justice,” he added.   Published on January 1st, Tuesday, 2019 4:33 PM 
 Rupandehi, January 1 Speaker of Provincial Assembly of Province 5 has called on political parties to choose a capital for the state through consensus. Speaking at a programme in Rupandehi, he said that the general people want the lawmakers to settle the issue at the earliest. “A special committee has been formed to resolve the issue,” he said, calling on assembly members to rise above the personal interests to find a way out. The assembly’s opposition leader Baladev Sharma Pokhrel of the Nepali Congress, who was speaking at the same programme, said that ‘Rupandehi’ could be the best location for the capital. This comes as Federal Socialist Forum chief whip Santosh Pandey proposed that the seat of government be set up in Rupandehi and ‘Lumbini’ as the province’s name. Published on January 1st, Tuesday, 2019 4:26 PM 
 Kathmandu, January 1 Nepali Congress lawmaker Amresh Kumar Singh has demanded that the Prime Minister resign taking responsibility for the alleged embezzlement of billions of rupees in the NAC aircraft procurement deal. Speaking during the ‘special time’ of the House of Representative, Singh criticised the government for its role in the purchase. “They talked a lot about good governance but where is their good governance now?” questioned Singh. He also blamed the government for not following the Public Procurement Act and regulations while purchasing the two wide-body aircraft.Â He urged the government to form a joint parliamentary committee to investigate into the case. “After the investigation, the government, on moral grounds, should quit,” added Singh. Singh told Parliament that he has proof of corruption in the purchase of the aircraft. He also added that he will be sharing the proof with the members of the House of Representatives soon. Published on January 1st, Tuesday, 2019 3:46 PM 
Sindhupalchowk, December 31 President Bidya Devi Bhandari has suggested that issues related to climate change and its adaptation be included in school curriculum. President Bhandari, who was inaugurating the National Climate Change Summit at Jyamire Guphadanda of Melamchi Municipality-9 in Sindhupalchok, added that Nepal has clearly underlined problems it faces due to climate change in the international arena. The Head of State also stressed on safeguarding culture and nature while using natural resources. Similarly, Minister for Forests and Environment Shakti Bahadur Basnet, Minister for General Administration and Federal Affairs Lal Babu Pandit, former ministers Agni Sapkota and Sher Bahadur Tamang extended their best wishes for the success of the summit. The summit is being organised by the District Coordination Committee Federation with managerial support from the DCC, Sindhupalchok. The two-day conference aims to raise awareness of climate adaptation planning. RSS Published on December 31st, Monday, 2018 5:48 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 31 President Bidya Devi Bhandari has appointed Anajan Shakya as the new Nepali ambassador to Israel. Shakya’s nomination to the post was recently approved by the Parliamentary Special Hearing Committee even as questions were raised about her qualifications for the job. Recalling incumbent Niranjan Thapa from its Tel Aviv mission, the government had nominated former journalist Anjan Shakya to take over the position. The decision sparked controversy as Shakya is known as a relative of Prime Minister Oli than a former journalist or a foreign affairs expert. She was appointed to the post as per Article 282 (1) of the Constitution. Published on December 31st, Monday, 2018 5:29 PM 
 Sher Bahadur DeubaKathmandu, December 31 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba has accused the ruling party of trying to bring the bureucracy under the control of the NCP. Talking to mediapersons on the sidelines of the Melmilap Day programee in Kathmandu, Deuba said that the government’s move signals towards its intent to establish autocratic rule in the country. “The government is trying to become autocratic. It wants to bring the bureaucracy under the party’s control. In the days to come, it might attempt to do the same with the police and army. We want a neutral army and police, but the government shows signs that it wants to turn autocratic.” Deuba held that his party was always in favour of national unity. “But this government does not want national unity, it wants to impose an authoritarian rule,” he added. Published on December 31st, Monday, 2018 5:14 PM 
 File: Electric buses meant for LumbiniKathmandu, December 31 The government is planning to roll out 300 electric buses in Kathmandu by April next year, Minister for Physical Infrastructure and Transport Raghubir Mahaseth says. Minister Mahaseth, who was talking to lawmakers from Parliament’s Development Committee, said that the new buses will start services in Kathmandu by the Nepali New Year. “The government is planning to roll out electric buses across the country and it plans to start from Kathmandu,” said Minister Mahaseth. He added that the government has formed a committee to look into what type of electric buses are suitable for the capital. The lawmakers asked Minister Mahseth about the charging infrastructure needed for the electric buses as Kathmandu does not have any charging station. The minister, however, did not give a clear answer to the question. Similarly, the lawmakers asked the minister why cabs in Kathmandu were fleecing the public and what the government was doing to prevent bus accidents. Published on December 31st, Monday, 2018 4:29 PM 
Kathmandu, December 31 NCP Chairmen KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ have invited members of a panel formed by the standing committee to look into the organisational details of the merger between then UML and Maoist Centre parties to Baluwatar. According to sources, the nine-member committee has been invited to Baluwatar on Monday to receive instructions from the top leaders. Although the standing commitee nominate eight members (Bishnu Paudel, Ram Bahadur Thapa, Shanker Pokhrel, Yogesh Bhattarai, Barsaman Pun, Bedu Ram Bhusal, Raghubir Mahaseth, Surendra Pandey and Lekhraj Bhatta) to the panel, a coordinator is yet to be named. Sources say that the chairmen are likely to pick a coordinator during the meeting later on Monday. The committee has been told to look into complaints by members who say that the merger did not take place as planned. The committee has also been told to identify rules that contradict the party statute. The new committee will also recommend on various issues related to the statute. Published on December 31st, Monday, 2018 4:22 PM 
     Kathmandu, December 30 Nepal Academy of Science and Technology (NAST) is going to partner with local governments to organise various programmes aimed at promoting the sciences. Chief Engineer at Faculty of Technology in NAST, Dr Rabindra Prasad Dhakal, said the NAST decided to partner with the local governments as the people’s representatives can adopt technology that can be transferred to the locals people. He said, “Under the plan, local governments will adopt the technology we develop They will then facilitate the local people to follow suit.” This is a departure from what is going on right now. Most of the technology transfer the NAST does is to the local people directly. “We want to partner with local governments because in the past, we saw that the locals were hesitant to adopt new technology,” he said. Published on December 30th, Sunday, 2018 4:31 PM 
   Butwal, December 30 Nepali Congress parliamentary party chief whip says the opposition will soon make its presence felt. Khand, who was talking to mediapersons in Butwal, said that his party was discussing with various stakeholders ways to raise its voice against the government’s failure to maintain the rule of law in the country. “We will raise our voice against the government’s decision to implement development projects worth over Rs 50 billion through the Prime Minister’s Office, the irregularities in the NAC wide-body aircraft deal and police’s failure to arrest the murderers of Nirmala Pant,” said the former minister.
“The Prime Minister and his ministers are making irresponsible statements against the spirit of the constitution. The government had such a wonderful opportunity to do something. But it is squandering this opportunity.” Khand said that Chief Minister Shanker Pokhrel and Province 5 Assembly Speaker Purna Chandra Gharti should be held responsible for the province’s failure to pick a capital and a name. “They are thinking about the next election,” he alleged. Published on December 30th, Sunday, 2018 3:42 PM 
Kathmandu, December 30 The government has decided to form a committee to investigate into alleged irregularities in the procurement of Nepal Airlines’ two wide-body aircraft. Sources say that once the committee starts its work, officials involved in the procurement process, including NAC Managing Director Sugat Ratna Kansakar might be suspended. After the Auditor General’s report stated that there were irregularities during the purchase of the aircraft, Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee has already started an investigation into the case. However, the Ministry of Civil Aviation remains mum on the issue. Minister Rabindra Adhikari recently told lawmakers that he gave his nod to the procurement process after receiving advice from the Auditor General to do so. But the Auditor General said that the minister was lying. Opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba, during the start of the Winter Session of Parliament, had questioned why the government had not initiated an investigation into the allegations. “Opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba asked for an investigation and the PM has agreed to conduct one so that the wrongdoers get punished,” shared NCP leader Yogesh Bhattarai. Published on December 30th, Sunday, 2018 3:17 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 30 Nepal Electricity Authority has scrapped its contract with two Chinese firms working on the Khimti-Bahrabise section of the Tamakoshi-Kathmandu 400 KV transmission line accusing the company of violating the deal’s terms and conditions. Guangxi Transmission & Substation Construction Company and the Shenzhen Clou Electronics Co Ltd,  were awarded the contract for the construction work two years ago. However, the company, which was awarded Rs 616,736,000 contract, did not start work on time, the NEA has alleged. “We annulled the contract a few days ago. We have seized the security deposit they presented during the signing of the agreement,” said project chief  Nawaraj Ojha said. The NEA will not return the Rs 205 million the companies deposited as security.
The NEA signed a contract with the two companies on September 27, 2016 and the work was expected to be completed by May 2019. Published on December 30th, Sunday, 2018 3:06 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 28 Prime Minister KP Oli has said no one in will die due to the cold weather this year. Speaking at an event organised by the Joint Trade Union Coordination Centre (JTUCC), PM Oli said that measures were being taken to help the poor in Terai to save them from the cold weather. “We have talked to the local government, security agencies and the private sector to help us make sure no one in Terai region dies of cold,” he said. PM Oli also reiterated that the Social Security Scheme would help people get out from poverty. “The scheme favours both the employers and the employees which is important for the country’s benefit. We don’t want the rich to become richer but want the poor to get rich so that there is equality in the society,” PM Oli added. He also assured the public that his government wasnâ€™t planning to bring in an authoritarian rule. Published on December 28th, Friday, 2018 4:51 PM 
   Rajbiraj, December 28 The Saptari District prison is accommodating thrice the number of inmates than its usual capacity. The prison, which has a capacity of 125 inmates is holding 315 inmates including 18 women, shares officiating jailor Satya Narayan Yadav. According to him, there are 196 male inmates in Block A, 107 male inmates in Block B and 18 women inmates in Block C of the prison. The overcrowded prison is causing a lot of inconvenience to the inmates who have to stay in queue for a long time to fill water from the tap and use the toilet. Jailor Yadav stressed on the need of constructing new prison as the 67 year-old prison made of stone and mud is dilapidated. Published on December 28th, Friday, 2018 3:40 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 28 Winner of this year’s A-Division League Manang Marshyangdi Club will represent Nepal in the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) Cup tournament in 2019. According to ANFA, MMC will represent Nepal in Asia’s secondary club football tournament. Three Star Club was the last team from Nepal to participate in the AFC Cup in 2017. MMC have been drawn in Group E along with Minerva Punjab from India and Dhaka Abahani from Bangladesh. The last team in the group will come through a play-off round in South Asia. The group matches of the competion will take place in the United Arab Emirates in April 2019. Published on December 28th, Friday, 2018 3:08 PM 
Kathmandu, December 27 The government has decided to purchase 300 electric buses to ply in Kathmandu. According to Minister for Information and Communication Gokul Baskota, the decision was made in a cabinet meeting. He also said that the government would be investing its own money while purchasing the buses. He added the electric busses would help control the air pollution in the Valley and also hoped it would help promote the use of electric vehicles in the capital. Baskota also shared that the government was hopeful that with more busses, there would be less cars which would help solve Kathmandu’s traffic jams. Published on December 27th, Thursday, 2018 7:21 PM 
   Kathmandu, December 27 The government has nominated five individuals to serve as it ambassadors in as many of its diplomatic posts. According to Minister for Information Gokul Baskota, the government has nominated Head of Protocol Deepak Adhikari as its ambassador to France, Joint Secretary Durga Prasad Bhandari to Kuwait, Joint Secretary Bhrigu Dhungana to Canada, Joint Secretary Mani Prasad Bhattarai to the UN and Ganesh Prasad Dhakal to Thailand. Similarly, the government has recalled Choplan Bhushal (Bangladesh), Arjun Bahadur Singh (South Africa) and Bharat Bahadur Rayamajhi (Spain). They have been given three weeks to return to Nepal. The proposed ambassadors will now face a parliamentary hearing before being appointed to the posts by President Bhandari. Published on December 27th, Thursday, 2018 5:06 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 27 Manang Maryangdi Club have clinched Pulsar Martyrs Memorial League title with two games to spare. MMC beat rivals Sankata 3-1 win on Thursday to secure their eighth league title with a 100 per cent win record. MMC took the lead through an own goal from Roshan Pahari right at the stroke of halftime. Second half goals from Pujan Upreti and Adelaja Somide put the game to bed and helped MMC clinch the title. MMC, after 11 rounds, have collected 33 points and are 8 points clear of second-placed Sankata. This means even if Manang lose their remaining two games, they will still win the league. Published on December 27th, Thursday, 2018 4:58 PM 
 Rajbiraj, December 27 Wild elephants are wreaking havoc around Koshi Tappu Wildlife Reserve in eastern Nepal, locals say. Residents living on the northern and eastern side of the reserve say they have been constantly living under threat of wild elephants. Sovitlal Paghaiya Yadav of Hanuman Nagar Kankalini Municipality-3 in Saptari said elephants from the reserve have been destroying their houses and crops. Two days ago, a herd of three tuskers damaged three houses in Sitapur in Kanchanpur in Saptari, shared Uttam Acharya, a local. Locals feel that local authorities are turning a blind eye to the wild elephant menace in Rupani Rural Municipality. Dozens of house owners have fled their houses fearing the elephants. Published on December 27th, Thursday, 2018 4:37 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 27 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has laid the foundation stone to the new Dharahara that is to be built next to the ruins of the historic tower devastated by the 2015 earthquake. Oli, during his previous stint as PM, had promised that the tower will be rebuilt. He even launched a campaign to raise funds for the project, which did not take off. Speaking at the event, PM Oli said that he wanted to look at a clean Kathmandu from the top of the new Dharahara and also added that he had given the contractors two years to finish the project. “Even senior citizens will be able to get to the top of the new Dharahara,” the PM announced. The National Reconstruction Authority has signed a contract with GIETC-RAMAN J/V and given it Rs 3.45 billion to finish the project.Â The ‘old’ Dharahara will be preserved by covering it with glass while the new Dharahara will be built next to it. According to the Heritage Department Chief at NRA Raju Man Manandhar, the new Dharahara will look like the older one, but will be built using modern technology. He also added that the new Dharahara will also have all modern amenities. Published on December 27th, Thursday, 2018 12:57 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 26 The Ministry of Agriculture says it has recorded a 9 per cent rise in paddy harvest this year. The ministry states a total of 5.61 million metric tons of paddy has been harvested this year. This betters last year’s harvest which was little over 5.15 million metric tons. Ministry officials have added that area of land in which paddy is cultivated has also increased from 1.46 million hectors to 1.49 million hectors. According to Senior Statistics Officer Ram Krishna Regmi, Province 2 topped the charts by producing 1.49 million metric tons followed by Province 1 which produced 1.12 million metric tons. The rise in paddy harvest has been attributed to a good monsoon, improved seeds and the easy availability of fertilisers. Published on December 26th, Wednesday, 2018 6:20 PM 
Kathmandu, December 26 Chairman of Nepal’s Communist Party Pushpa Kamal Dahal has told his members of NCP standing committee that he doesn’t want to create any trust issues with co-chairman and Prime Minister KP Oli. Addressing the ongoing standing committee meeting on Thursday, he said that that the ‘two-chairman system’ was new and everyone needed to work together to take it forward. He told party leaders that helping PM Oli was his responsibility, sources quoted him as saying. He also highlighted that he had not done anything wrong, but was still blamed for everything. Prachanda also added that he was offered power in return for refusing to go ahead with the merger with then UML. He told members he didn’t accept the offer and went ahead with the party merger. He said that at this point in time, unity among party members was important. According to a standing committee member, Prachanda has promised to form a committee in January to sort out the details of the merger. Published on December 26th, Wednesday, 2018 3:17 PM 
  Kathmandu, December 26 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC has declined an invitation from Parliament’s Education and Health Committee to discuss the medical education bill presented before the legislature. The committee had invited KC to discuss the bill before it gives finishing touches to the draft. NCP leader Yogesh Bhattarai, along with the Nepali Congress’ Gagan Thapa, was given the responsibility of inviting Dr KC to the committee meeting. When Thapa and Bhattarai approached KC, he said he had nothing more to say on the issue. Published on December 26th, Wednesday, 2018 3:12 PM 
 Butwal, December 26 Inspector General of Police Sarbendra Khanal says there is no security threat from Netra Bikram Chand (Biplav) and his party. Khanal, who was speaking at a community-police partnership programme in at Deep Boarding School in Butwal, mentioned that neither Biplav’s party nor any other extremist group threatens security in the country. “We don’t need to be afraid of parties who are against the new constitution. I would like to assure you that police are capable of dealing with them,” he added. Talking about the Nirmala Pant murder case, he informed that four teams were investigating the incident. He added that police had a 97 per cent success rate when it came to violence against women. “I agree we haven’t been successful in this case and that has resulted in the public losing trust in the force. But we want the community to trust police and help us eradicate violence from the society,” he said. The students of the school told Khanal that the way police have handled the Pant muder case makes it hard for them to trust them. They added that the trust would only come back after the culprit was brought to justice. Published on December 26th, Wednesday, 2018 2:56 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 25 Top leaders of the Rastriya Janata Party have met Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli at his residence in Baluwatar to remind him about their demands. The RJP, which supports the government in Parliament, has threatened to withdraw its support to the government if the Prime Minister is not serious about addressing its demands. “We lent ourÂ support to the government after the Prime Minister assured us that the constitution will be amended, but he has not done it,” an RJP leader told Onlinekhabar. “We wanted to remind him of his promise,” he added. RJP leaders Rajendra Mahato, Mahanta Thakur, Mahendra Raya Yadav, Sharat Singh Bhandari and Raj Kishore Yadav were present during the meeting. Published on December 25th, Tuesday, 2018 4:02 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 25 The National Reconstruction Authority, which was formed eight months after the devastating 2015 earthquake, says 77 per cent of the private homes razed by the temnlor have now been rebuilt. The authority, in its press conference to commemorate the third anniversary of its establishment, said that of the 742,135 households that signed an agreement to receive reconstruction grant from the authority, 337,319 have completed building their new house. Similarly, 233,343 households are in the process of building a house. The authority had said that around 884,800 houses were lost in the quake in 2015. Published on December 25th, Tuesday, 2018 3:57 PM 
 Dhangadhi, December 25 For the next seven days, Dhangadhi airport in Western Nepal only be in operation at night, officials saidÂ  on Tuesday. According to airport authorities, the runway will remain shut from 6 am to 6 pm as engineers work on its maintenance. “We need to repair the runway as it suffered damage during the rainy season,” says Civil Aviation Authority Dhandgadhi chief Tej Bahadur Thapa. According to Thapa, the airport will open during the day from January 1. Published on December 25th, Tuesday, 2018 3:50 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 24 A company backed by the Indian government has expressed interest to buy 1,500 MW of electricity from Nepal for the long run. India’s NTPC Vidyut Vyapar Nigam’s latest proposal has kindled hope among Nepali power producers that future projects will get a market in India even if excess power is generated in Nepal. NVVVN, which has been selling power to Nepal during the dry season, wants to supply 500 MW produced in Nepal’s Upper Karnali to Bangladesh. Energy Minister Barsa Man Pun said that a proposal to buy power from Nepal’s Upper Karnali has already been tabled in the country’s council of ministers. According to officials, Nepal can only start exporting power when the Tamakoshi project comes online. Published on December 24th, Monday, 2018 9:30 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 24 Nepal wants to buy assault rifles for its army to take part in UN’s peacekeeping force. But it cannot do so as prevalent laws do not allow the government to pay for the weapons in one instalment. The US Army’s Indo-Pacific Command has already agreed to sell 6,000 assault rifles worth Rs 1 billion to Nepal. But it insists that the government pay for the guns in one go. However, Nepal’s national procurement law states that payment for such large procurements can only be made in three instalments. Defence Minister Ishwar Pokharel told Onlinekhabar that the guns were necessary for Nepal to prepare for peacekeeping missions and the ministry was looking for legal ways to bring the guns to Nepal at the earliest. Recently the UN made it compulsory for contributing troops to be equipped with weapons even before they are considered for deployment. If Nepal doesn’t get the guns soon, the UN might not consider Nepali Army for new peacekeeping missions. “As we are working in a G2G model, America is asking for the payment in lump sum. But our laws don’t give us the permission to do so which is why we are looking at other ways to close this deal,” said Minister Pokharel. The new guns will replace Nepal Army’s 20/30-year-old weapons. Published on December 24th, Monday, 2018 4:29 PM 
Kathmandu, December 24 Minister for Drinking Water and Sanitation Bina Magar says the government is serious about resolving issues related to the Melamchi Drinking Water project. “The government is serious about solving this problem. We have to be careful because we don’t want others to take advantage of this issue,” she said. She added that the ministry was talking to experts on how the problem can be managed. Speaking at an event hosted by WAS Media Forum on Monday, Magar said that all parties involved needed to create a respectful environment for the completion of the project. Magar’s comments come as CMC, the Italian contractor working on the project’s main tunnel, said it would resume construction if its staffers are allowed to go home for Christmas and the government injects more cash into the project. The Italian embassy in Kathmandu has said it will guarantee the staffers’ return. However, the government is not convinced that the Italian contractor will abide by its words. Published on December 24th, Monday, 2018 3:56 PM 
Kathmandu, December 24 Nepal’s Sandeep Lamichhane impressed again on Monday taking three wickets in his second match of the Big Bash League against the Hobart Hurricanes. Lamichhane, who took two wickets in the first game on Friday was the pick of the bowlers for his team Melbourne Stars. However, his effort was not enough to secure a win for Melbourne. Alex Doolan, who didn’t read the leg spinner’s googly, was Lamichhane’s first victim. Doolan left a big gap between the bat and pad and the ball sneaked through as he played against the turn. The young leggie then made Aussie wicketkeeper Mathew Wade play a rash shot giving his team hope. Wade top-edged a sweep straight to short fine leg. Lamichhane’s googly was fruitful once again as he trapped Ben McDermott to claim his third wicket. Lamichhane finished with figures of 3-24 in his four overs bowling nine dot balls in the process. Lamichhane now has five wickets to his name in the Big Bash League. Published on December 24th, Monday, 2018 2:58 PM 
Kathmandu, December 23 Former Prime Minister and Nepali Congress leader Sher Bahadur Deuba has ordered his party rank and file to prepare for agitation against the KP Oli government. According to party sources, the Nepali Congress is planning to launch an agitation campaign against the government on December 28, which coincides with the ‘Melmilap’ day, started by BP Koirala. Addressing the final session of the Maha Samiti meeting of the party, Deuba called on his party men to fight against an autocratic government. “The Oli government is trying to impose autocracy. All of us should be ready to launch an agitation against this government,” he said. The opposition leader said that Oli was not only hurting the country, but also his own party leaders. He held that Oli cannot do any good for the country. Deuba’s party rival Ram Chandra Paudel echoed the party chief and called for agitation against the government. Published on December 23rd, Sunday, 2018 7:51 PM 
Kathmandu, December 23 The domestic sharemarket has sent a wave of hope to its investors as it recorded a double-digit rise on the first day of the trading week. Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE) index closed at 1198.18 points, registering a 32.24 point rise. A total of 2,812,212 units of share of 164 companies were traded on Sunday and the total turnover was Rs 875,572,763. All the NEPSE sub-indices, except the manufacturing and production, ended the day with a green signal. The manufacturing and production sub index suffered a 6.05-point fall. Investors in insurance sector earned the most as its sub index registered the steepest increment to settle at 318.02 points. Published on December 23rd, Sunday, 2018 5:17 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 23 The ongoing standing committee meeting of the Nepal Communist Party on Sunday discussed the controversial Asia Pacific Summit. After party members expressed dissatisfaction over the role the government played during the summit, senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal responded to a question raised by many: Why did the government agree to host the summit? According to a party source, Nepal defended the government’s role by telling the members that the United Peace Federation wasn’t a bad organisation and that the government had done nothing wrong by hosting the event. During the meeting, Nepal also clarified that he had only gone on foreign visits six times and not 22 times as was pointed out by a group of party leaders. “You can investigate the UPF. I have no problem,” the source quoted him as saying. However, senior party members Ghansyam Bhusal, Narayan Kaji Shrestha, Bhim Rawal said they were dissatisfied with his clarification and criticised Nepal. According to the source, they told Nepal the summit showed both the government and the party ministers in bad light. Former Foreign Minister Shrestha reported to the members that he had told the Baburam Bhattarai-led government not to host the summit in 2012. He added that he had suggested both PM Oli and Chairman Prachanda to not go ahead with the summit. Bhim Rawal and Ghanshyam Bhusal reiterated that the UPF was not a good organisation and that the role of the government in promoting the summit was wrong. Rawal even read out the letter sent by PM Oli to the guests of the summit. He questioned how PM Oli could support such a controversial organisation by sending out invitations himself. Published on December 23rd, Sunday, 2018 4:26 PM 
India has amended its cross-border power trading regulations, paving the way for Nepali power producers to export electricity to third countries such as Bangladesh. Before the amendment, only state-run companies of the two countries or companies with at least 51 per cent Indian shareholders could sell power to India or any other country using Indian powerlines. The older provision discouraged foreign investors and private Nepali power developers from exporting to India. However, the new amendment makes it easier for hydro powers owned by Nepali private sector or China-backed companies to export electricity to neighbouring countries such as Bangladesh. But participating entities will have to sign a transmission agreement with the Central Transmission Utility of India to trade electricity using Indian power lines. The recently-issued Guidelines on Cross-Border Trade Import/Export of Electricity states that after tripartite agreements (in the case of Nepal, between Dhaka, New Delhi and Kathmandu) cross-border trade of electricity across India will be allowed under the overall framework of bilateral agreements signed between the Government of India and the government of respective neighbouring countries of the participating entities. While issuing guidelines on cross-border electricity trade for the first time in 2017, the Indian Power Ministry had failed to recognise a possible trilateral arrangement between countries such as Nepal and Bangladesh, who have been intensifying power-trading talks in the last few months. This comes as good news for foreign investors who refrained from investing in hydropower in Nepal after India’s reluctance to import electricity produced by non-Indian entities. Energy Ministry officials have also welcomed the latest guidelines, saying it is more dynamic and that it has opened a path for the development of the hydropower sector in Nepal. Published on December 23rd, Sunday, 2018 2:41 PM 
 According to local police, officials are trying to ascertain the identities of the deceased, most of whom are students of Krishna Sen Ichhuk Polytech returning home after an educational trip. Published on December 22nd, Saturday, 2018 9:12 AM 
 Pokhara, December 21 RPP chief Kamal Thapa has met former king Gyanendra Shah, who is in Pokhara for a 15-day-long visit. According to Media Nepal’s Gopal Paudel, Thapa and Shah talked for around one hour from 9 am. Paudel said that during the meeting Shah expressed concern over the ‘deteriorating’ situation of the country. He said that Thapa informed the former king that his party was going to launch a campaign to resurrect monarchy and reverse federalism. The campaign is to begin on February 19. Thapa also apprised Shah of the challenges he faces in uniting RPP splinter groups. Published on December 21st, Friday, 2018 2:47 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 21 The Supreme Court has ordered the release of gangster Rajiv Gurung (aka Deepak Manange) who was serving a prison sentence for an attempt to murder case. According to a police source, Gurung, who is also a member of the Gandaki Province Assembly, Gurung was released on Friday upon orders from the apex court.  Gurung was arrested in Kathmandu on April 20 after the then Appellate Court sentenced him to five years in prison. The source said that Gurung filed an appeal against the order and posted bail to get out of jail. The gangster was apprehended after he assaulted another gangster Milan Chakre (Milan Gurun) with a sword in 2005. The then Kathmandu District court watered down the case against him and instead found him guilty of assault. The district court sentenced him to two years in prison. But the district attorney’s office filed an appeal against the decision at the appellate court. Eight years after the incident, the appellate court sentenced him to five years in prison finding him guilty of attempt to murder charge.   Published on December 21st, Friday, 2018 2:35 PM 
Bhadrapur, December 21 Nepal Communist Party Jhapa leader Deepak Bhandari of Mechinagar, who was reported missing since Thursday morning, is believed to be in India, police said CCTV footage provided by the Kakarvitta border police shows Bhandari heading to India on a rickshaw with an unidentified man. District Police Office, Jhapa spokesperson Mahendra Kumar Shrestha said Bhandari, who was last seen at 9:00 am on, Thursday was spotted by the camera at around 9:25 am. At 9:40 am, a CCTV camera captured him in Panitanki of India. Police are trying to identify the person accompanying him. However, the 49-year-old has not come into contact with anyone. He has left mobile phone and motorcycle at home. Police are investigating the case. Published on December 21st, Friday, 2018 2:15 PM 
 Pipes are being laid down for the Nepal-India petroleum pipeline, in June 2018.Birgunj, December 20 Work on the India-Nepal petroleum pipeline is gathering pace. Contractors working on the project have already completed the laying 24 km of the 36.2 km-long Motihari-Amlekhganju pipeline “Work on the project is gathering momentum. India can start supplying petrol to Nepal through the pipeline within three months if we can work at this pace,” said Motihari-Amlekhganj petroleum pipeline project engineer Sharad Prasad Paudyal. Of the remaining 12.2 km, around 9km of the pipeline passes through Parsa National Park. The Indian government is investing IRs 3.5 billion to install the pipeline. Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi jointly laid the foundation stone for the project from Hyderabad House in New Delhi during PM Oli’s visit to India eight months ago. RSS Published on December 20th, Thursday, 2018 4:26 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 20 Students affiliated to the Nepal Students Union organised a rally in Kathmandu on Thursday to demand clean air. The students picketed Kathmandu Metropolitan City’s Office demanding action to combat the menace of air pollution. The demonstrations come as several reports have shown that Kathmandu’s air quality is one of the worst in the world.    The demonstrators demanded that the government give its people the right to breathe freely. They also demanded that pollution checks on vehicles be made more stringent. Published on December 20th, Thursday, 2018 4:14 PM 
Siraha, December 20 Life in Terai-Madhesh has been severely affected by a cold wave. While people are staying home and the markets are shut, members of marginalised and poor communities are facing difficulties in coping with the chill.
Siraha, one of the districts in eastern Terai, has been the worst affected. Doctors at the Siraha District Hospital said some 20-25 visit the hospital with cold-induced health issues each day. Similarly, in Udayapur, Sunsari, Morang, Jhapa, Bara, Rautahat, Sarlahi, Mahottari, Dhanusha normal life has been brought to a standstill. People’s movement in the district headquarters, towns and market areas has significantly gone down with a dip in temperature in the past two days.
People have started making fire to keep themselves warm. District Administration Office, Siraha has already issued a circular to the local government, Forest Division Office, Siraha and other authorities concerned to arrange firewood for the needy.   RSS Published on December 20th, Thursday, 2018 4:03 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 19 Members of indigenous communities have staged a protest in Kathmandu demanding that the government give them holidays during their festivals. They say that the government unlawfully cancelled holidays for festivals such as Lhosar, Udahauli, Ubhauli and Maghi. They argue that the government decision to cut short the list of national holidays has deprived them of their right to observe their festivals. The protest was part of the Nepal Federation of Indigenous Nationalities’ movement against the government decision to limit the number of government holidays. Published on December 19th, Wednesday, 2018 5:19 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 19 Members of National Assembly’s National Concern and Coordination Committee have told the government it was not necessary to buil an aerocity in Nijgadh, the proposed location of the second international airport. The committee has directed the government to transfer land set aside for the city to the airport project. The lawmakers argued that the government was using the pretext of the aerocity to fell trees in the area. Members of the committee, who visited Nijgadh recently, said that cities and villages close to the proposed location should be developed as modern cities instead of building a new aerocity. The committee has also directed the government to prepare the DPR of the project within this fiscal. Published on December 19th, Wednesday, 2018 5:15 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 19 A group of civil servants has picketed the Ministry of General Administration demanding that the government only send willing bureaucrats to the provinces. The group also submitted a memo to Chief Secretary Lok Darshan Regmi saying that the government should establish a pool of civil servants who do not want to go to the provinces and they be sent on deputation only. They have also demanded that the re-adjustment process be started only after Parliament passes the new Civil Service, Provincial Civil Service and Local Government Service acts. Similarly, they want the government to reconsider its decision to allow provincial service staffers to return to the federal service. Published on December 19th, Wednesday, 2018 5:09 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 19 Nepali cricket team manager Raman Siwakoti says his side will play an ODI series against the UAE sometime in 2019. He said that while the ICC has accepted the team’s proposal to play a series against the UAE, it hasn’t finalised the dates yet. “There is talks of a two-match ODI series and two-match T-20 series,” says Siwakoti. Nepal received ODI status after an impressive showing in the World Cup Qualifiers held in Zimbabwe in March. Since then Nepal has only played two ODI matches, both against the Netherlands. Published on December 19th, Wednesday, 2018 3:55 PM 
Kathmandu, December 19 Finance Ministers Yuvraj Khatiwada has urged sugar producers to bear the health of consumers in mind. Speaking at a meeting of the House of Representatives’ Industries, Commerce, Labour and Consumer Committee, Khatiwada said that the government was doing its best to support sugar producers in the country and requested them to take the issue of consumer welfare seriously. “The government has been helping you for a number of years now. We’ve provided facilities and assisted you whenever you’ve asked for help. It’s only fair if you treat the consumer in a similar manner,” added Khatiwada. “We increased the customs tax from 15 to 30 % because it was necessary. We are in an open market and we cannot be subsidising taxes for long,” he said. Khatiwada’s comments come as the price of sugar has recorded increments in the last few months. This prompted government intervention in the market. Published on December 19th, Wednesday, 2018 3:52 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 18 The Security Board of Nepal (SEBON) has urged investors to remain patient. In a statement, it has urged the investors to remain calm and assured them that it was aware of the issues surrounding the stock exchange. The board informed investors that the government has formed a committee, which includes representatives from investors, to look into the matter. The board reminded the investors that the committee will address the demands of investors. “We request all investors to remain calm and patient. Â We want the share market to be as clean and as transparent as possible and that cannot happen without the help of investors.” This comes as Nepal Stock Exchange, the only stock market in Nepal has been witnessing a slump for the past few years. Published on December 18th, Tuesday, 2018 5:07 PM 
   Kathmandu, December 18 The national convention of government attorneys is going to be held on December 23 in Kathmandu. The meeting is to deliberate on the effective implementation of the newly-enforced criminal code. The code, which came into force on August 17, year replaces the Muluki Ain, civil code of Nepal. According to the Jhapa District Court Judge, Keshav Prasad Panta, the convention will dwell on ambiguous provisions in the new code and remove them.
A total of 25 working papers will be presented in the convention. “The convention is also expected to enhance the capacity of the lawyers,” said Judge Panta.
Furthermore, he added that the convention will contribute towards delivering justice in an objective manner.
Around 400 government prosecutors and lawyers from 80 stakeholder agencies in the country will participate in the event. Published on December 18th, Tuesday, 2018 3:05 PM 
Kathmandu, December 18 Province 5 Chief Minister and NCP standing committee member Shanker Pokhrel says he is ready to give up his post in government if he has to choose between his ministership and his position in the party. Pokhrel’s comment comes as NCP members have been criticising him and Gandaki Province Chief Minister Prithivi Subba Gurung for ‘occupying’ the party and the government leadership in the province. During the standing committee meeting of the party on Tuesday, Pokharel said that he would not give up his political responsibilities even though he was the Chief Minister. “If this is such a problem, I’d like to resign from my post,” he said during the meeting. Published on December 18th, Tuesday, 2018 12:39 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 18 Former Prime Minister and senior politician Tulsi Giri passed away on Tuesday morning. He was 93. According to his family, Giri breathed his last at his residence in Budhanilkantha. He was diagnosed with liver cancer and was admitted to Medicity Hospital for the last 10 days. Giri, a hardliner Panchayat insider, lent unwavering support to the Panchayat dictatorship of King Mahendra in the 1960s. Giri left for Sri Lanka in 1979 after he was not satisfied with then King Birendra to conduct a referendum on the fate of the Panchayat system. However, he came back in 2003 after King Gyanendra assumed power. He was named the vice chairman of the council of ministers. He is survived by his wife, two sons and two daughters. Published on December 18th, Tuesday, 2018 10:58 AM 
Kathmandu, December 17 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC on Monday warned that if his demands are not met, he will launch a fresh hunger strike from January 1. Dr KC, who has already gone on 15 rounds of hunger strike, had previously said his strike will start on December 17, but he extended his ultimatum by two weeks after Parliament’s Education and Health Committee asked for more time to address his demands. Dr KC, who has been demanding that agreements between him and the government be respected by the new medical education act, has also demanded that the government bring the murderers of Bhimdutta Nagar teenager Nirmala Pant to book. Published on December 17th, Monday, 2018 4:39 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 17 Share investors demanding the resignation of finance minister Yuvraj Khatiwada have started a fast-unto-death on Monday. Investors in the past week have been demanding reforms in the domestic stock market. However, as the government was ‘reluctant’ to hear their views, they started their hunger strike outside Nepal Stock Exchange. The strike was initiated by share investor’s pressure group. Investors Hari Dhakal and Tilak Koirala say that they are protesting because the government hasnâ€™t addressed their demands. They add that the high-level study committee formed by the government under the leadership of Deputy Governor of Nepal Rastra Bank Shiva Raj Shrestha is ignoring their demands. They also want the government to bring necessary acts, regulations and laws for the greater interest of the market. The committee, formed to suggest ways to address a slump in the market, is said to be preparing to submit its report to Finance Minister Yuba Raj Khatiwada in the coming days. The market opened on Monday, but trading did not go as normal. “Even though the market opened at the same time it normally does, it is practically inactive,” shares Mura Parajuli, spokesperson for Nepal Stock Exchange. He added the protest by the investors might have affected the share market. Published on December 17th, Monday, 2018 4:32 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 17 The impact of cyclone Phethai in an area south-west of the Bay of Bengal is being felt in Nepal on Monday. The Meteorological Forecasting Division of the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology forecasts light rainfall in the eastern, central and hilly regions on Monday. They also inform that light to moderate snowfall is expected in the mountainous regions. According to meteorologist Barun Poudel, cyclone Phethai will make landfall on the coastal region of Andhra Pradesh on Monday afternoon as the system moves from north to west. The temperature in several parts of the country, including in the Kathmandu Valley dipped on Monday. The minimum temperature of the Valley on Monday morning was recorded at 2.5 C while the maximum temperature is expected to reach 20 C. The Valley’s minimum temperature was recorded at 3 Degree Celsius on Monday. A week ago it was 5-6 Degree Celsius. Published on December 17th, Monday, 2018 2:38 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 16 The Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee will begin the procedure to conduct a hearing for the appointment of new Chief Justice. The Constitutional Council has already recommended senior Justice Cholendra Shumsher Rana for the position. A meeting of the committee today decided to issue a public notice seeking complaints against him. Committee Chairman Laxman Lal Karna shares that the committee will take complaints for the next 10 days after which they will conduct the hearing with Rana. Rana’s name will be forwarded to the President once the Committee endorses it. Earlier this year, Justice Deepak Raj Joshee was rejected by the committee. Published on December 16th, Sunday, 2018 3:41 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 16 The state of six ‘jana-andolan’ victims who were staging a fast on to death in Maitighar is getting worst every day. Out of the six, Mangal Singh Praja from Makwanpur and Til Chandra Kami from Bardiya have fainted due to lack of care and the cold weather. The six were all injured during the Maoist insurgency and are demanding free medication from the government. “We gave a lot during the fight to make Nepal a republic. We lost our limbs during the war. But now we have to beg the government to take care of us,” says Sangram Kami who argues that the communist party in power has done nothing for them. Though the fast on to death they have demanded the release of their coordinator Yuvaraj Bishwakarma and want all injured during the war to be recognised properly. Their demands also include job opportunities for the injured and free education for all their children. Published on December 16th, Sunday, 2018 2:54 PM 
 Pokhara, December 16 Minister for Social Development in Gandaki Province, Naradevi Pun, has said the media can play a significant role to bring political changed in the country. Inaugurating the fifth convention of the Sancharika Samuha’s province chapter, Pun added that journalism needs to steer society towards prosperity. “There is the need of factual, credible and respectable media at present,” Pun said expressing she was ready to extend support from the government to increase women’s participation in journalism. Province Assembly member Mina Gurung said women journalists could play a significant role to end violence against women that has afflicted Nepali society. Another member Rajib Pahari suggested the media can help bring out the struggles of women for rights and justice. RSS Published on December 16th, Sunday, 2018 2:14 PM 
 Lahan, Siraha, December 16 A fire broke out at Bagabira village of Bode Barsayen Municipality-7 in Saptari district on Saturday night, reducing six houses to ashes. A woman was injured and eight livestock were killed in the incident. Locals share that a cowshed belonging to Geni Das caught a flame before spreading to nearby houses. The house of locals Kari Das, Devendra Das, and a shop of Jogendra Das were burnt down. Injured Dev Kumari Das is receiving treatment at Lahan-based Saptarishi Narsingh Home. The fire was doused with the help of the police and the locals one hour later. Police say that the fire destroyed property worth 1 million. RSS Published on December 16th, Sunday, 2018 10:51 AM 
Kathmandu, December 14 At least 16 people have lost their lives in a mini truck accident in Nuwakot, a district that neighbours Kathmandu. The truck, which was headed to Ghyanphedi from Sikharbesi, fell off the road around 60 km away from the district headquarters in Bidur, officials said. Five people injured in the accident have been rushed to a local hospital.   Published on December 14th, Friday, 2018 7:21 PM 
Kathmandu, December 13 The third Standing Committee meeting of the Nepal Communist Party is taking place at their central office in Dhumbarahi tomorrow. According central member Krishna Gopal Shrestha, the endorsement of decisions made by the secretariat meeting and discussions about government activities, unification issues at the lower level and contemporary issues are the agenda of the meeting scheduled for 1:00 pm. The previous Standing Committee meeting was held in June. Since then the party leadership has been being criticised for being unable to hold the Standing Committee meeting for long in the aftermath of the unification between two leftist parties. The tomorrow’s meeting is expected to finalise the issues regarding the unification of the party’s wings and district committees. RSS Published on December 14th, Friday, 2018 3:48 PM 
Kalaiya, December 14 Minister for Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation Barsha Man Pun has conducted a monitoring inspection of various irrigation and embankment projects in Bara district today. The minister inspected the Banguri Khola Embankment Construction Project. The government had constructed the structure following a massive flood in the Banguri Khola stream leading to the displacement of locals in the area. Minister Pun also pledged further support on behalf of the government. He also visited the Jamuni Irrigation Project near Dadarangawa, Kotwali and the Adhuwa Irrigation Project at Kachorwa. After the inspection, he expressed the commitment to take initiatives for the early completion of the projects so that it would be beneficial to farmers. The inspection team comprised of Nepal Communist Partyâ€™s Province 2 President Prabhu Saha, in-charge Satya Narayan Mandal, provincial assembly member Mohammad Samir, leader Anil Shrestha among others. Minister Pun also visited the famous Gadhimai Temple. RSS Published on December 14th, Friday, 2018 12:11 PM 
 Bhatarpur, December 14 Stakeholders have called upon the government to revoke the Citizenship Bill-2075 arguing that it is against the national interest. At an interaction programme organised in Chitwan, they said that the bill brought to amend the Citizenship Act, 2063 should be postponed cautioning that it could be counterproductive. On the occasion, Coordinator of National Awakening Council Sadhya Bahadur Bhandari said that the proposed bill serves the anti-national interests. He instead asked the government to constitute a high-powered citizenships probe commission. “This bill is too loose than that of 2063. It should be immediately postponed and a new high-powered commission should be formed to probe the issues on citizenship,” Bhandari added. Likewise, Chairman of Nepal Bar Association Chitwan district chapter Kamalraj Pathak, foreign affairs expert Hiranyalal Shrestha, border experts Hemanta Sedhain and Buddhi Narayan Shrestha and other speakers also shared their opinions to revoke the proposed citizenship bill and also suggested that the government should regulate the Nepal-India open border. RSS Published on December 14th, Friday, 2018 11:04 AM 
Katowice (Poland), December 13 Although Nepal has not made any progress in its climate change policies since the signing of the historic Paris Agreement to limit global temperature rise to 2 degree Celsius, it is one of the countries whose policies are compatible with the ambition of the accord to strive to limit warming to 1.5 degree Celsius. The report, Climate Action Tracker Warming Projections Global Update, released on the sidelines of the  Conference of Parties (COP) to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, says that Nepal’s climate policies compatible with 1.5 degree ambition of Paris Agreement.  Of the 32 countries included in the study, Ethiopia, Morocco and Nepal already have policies that are compatible with the historic agreement’s ambition, says the report. “If the CAT (Climate Action Tracker) were to rate Nepal‘s projected emissions levels in 2030 under current policies, we would rate Nepal “1.5°C Paris Agreement compatible,” indicating that Nepal’s climate commitment in 2030 is consistent with holding warming well below 2°C, and limiting warming to 1.5°C,”says the report. “Recently, Nepal announced the years 2018–2028 as the ‘Energy Decade’ emphasising the development and expansion of renewable energy and this is positive step,” said Yvvon Deng of Cimate Tracker at a press conference organised in Katowice. According to Climate Action Tracker, as of 2010 Nepal’s emissions make up less than 0.1 per cent of global emissions. The report says that with its current policies, Nepal’s emissions are expected to increase to between 54–58 Mt by 2030 (an increase of 54–66% compared to 2010 levels). “Nepal’s GHG emissions per capita are amongst the lowest in the world and even with this increase, the country’s per capita emissions would only grow from 1.3 tCO2e/cap as of 2010 to 1.6–1.8 tCO2e/cap by 2030, still far below the world average required per capita emissions of 3.6 tCO2e/cap by 2030 according to a 1.5°C scenario,” says the report. Meanwhile, the report concludes that the world is not doing enough to limit global climate warming to 2 degrees. It says that even if the countries reduce emissions as per their Paris Agreement commitments. there will be a temperature rise of 3 degree Celsius. Published on December 14th, Friday, 2018 10:19 AM 
 Kathmandu, December 13 An ambulance has met with an accident at Guras Rural Municipality, Dailekh. The ambulance was on its way to Kalikot from Surkhet. According to District Police Office, the ambulance (registratio number Ba 2 Ja 1740) met with the accident killing Shailekh Bista, who was in his late teens. Driver Ganesh Khadkha has suffered injuries, but is safe, according to police. The ambulance had lost control and hit Bista. Kalikot has only one ambulance. Published on December 13th, Thursday, 2018 12:21 PM 
Kathmandu, December 13 Nepali Congress member Gagan Thapa has asked for the Universal Peace Federation (UPF) to be banned from Nepal. He shares that the video released by the UPF has given a wrong message to the world. The federation has recently shared a video which states on November 22, 2005, the parliament declared it National Peace Day. “There was no parliament back then. How can they just assume things,” argues Thapa. He further added that it was the day when the peace treaty signed between the Maoists and the government. “The assembly didnâ€™t announce it as a National Peace Day. The video has disrespected Nepal and all Nepalis,” he says. Thapa adds the UPF needs to be banned from Nepal because it will create conflict in the future. Published on December 13th, Thursday, 2018 12:03 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 13 Constitutional Council has recommended Cholendra Shumsher Rana to become the new Chief Justice. The Council came to an agreement to make Rana after a meeting on Thursday. The Judicial Council had recommended Rana’s name along with Justice Deepak Raj Joshee to the Constitutional Council. But the Constitutional Council favoured Rana over Joshee as the latterâ€™s previous nomination to the seat of chief justice was besieged by a controversy related to his questionable academic credentials and lack of candour during his testimony. Joshee was the first-ever Supreme Court nominee to be rejected by the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee. The Constitutional Council meeting was unable to recommend the name of new Chief Justice on Tuesday and Wednesday after Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba did not show up. Published on December 13th, Thursday, 2018 11:20 AM 
Kathmandu, December 12 Province 3 Chief Minister Dor Mani Paudel says Hetaunda of Makawanpur district will be retained as the provincial capital. Paudel’s statement comes at a time when the Provincial Assembly has been indecisive about the capital city as provincial lawmakers are divided between Kavre and Makawanpur. But Paudel, who was once the mayor of Hetaunda, told journalists in Kathmandu on Wednesday that Hetaunda would be the best option as it already had various needful infrastructures. Otherwise, much time and money would be spent on infrastructure development, according to him. The city has been serving as the temporary provincial capital since the provincial government came into existence last year. “All physical infrastructures are set up where we have the capital now,” he said, “If it is relocated, the ongoing development works would be obstructed.” Meanwhile, Paudel also claimed that the Assembly would give a name to the province within next five weeks. Published on December 12th, Wednesday, 2018 3:23 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 12 The National Vigilance Centre has recommended action against 530 government employees after finding that they failed to follow the rules on office timing and uniform. Of them, 318 were booked for not reporting to work on time and other 162 for violating the official dress code, Centre’s spokesperson Bishnu Raj Lamichhane says. He informs the Centre has directed the chiefs of the offices concerned to take departmental action against the employees found at fault. The Centre, in the last  fiscal year, had recommended departmental action against 2,340 government employees for not following the office time and dress rules after monitoring 1,140 offices in 52 districts across the country. Meanwhile, the people’s representatives in 237 local level units have not yet submitted their property details to the Centre. All the employees and the people’s representatives as well as office holders are required by law to submit their property details to the Centre every fiscal year. RSS Published on December 12th, Wednesday, 2018 2:31 PM 
Kathmandu, December 12 Staff of the Federal Parliament Secretariat on Wednesday announced a protest programme demanding they be provided with an allowance for working overtime and at odd hours. The government used to provide them allowance till the end of last fiscal year. The provision was scrapped during the announcement of annual budget statement for this year. The staff, however, argue that they need the additional allowance as meetings of the houses and other parliamentary committees take place anytime including in early mornings and late eveningss; therefore regular salary will not be sufficient. Therefore, they have decided not to work during other hours except the office time from December 16, according to Megh Raj Aryal, a leader of the parliamentary staff trade union. “We will work between 10 am and 4 pm only. We cannot work in mornings and evenings if there is not additional allowance.” Published on December 12th, Wednesday, 2018 1:55 PM 
Janakpurdham, December 12 India’s controversial Hindu leader and the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath, on Wednesday morning, landed in the holy city of Janakpurdham to celebrate the annual festival of Bibaha Panchami. The festival culturally marks the centuries-old ties the two countries have shared as it commemorates the mythical wedding between Sita from Janakpur of Nepal and Ram from Ayodhya of India. Yogi Adityanath came to the Nepali city today leading wedding attendants from the groom’s side. Province 2 Chief Minister Lalbabu Raut and Indian Ambassador to Nepal Manjeev Singh Puri welcomed Yogi to Janakpur. He had flied from Lucknow on a private aircraft. Yogi performed a puja at the Janaki Temple minutes after his arrival. He will also attend a luncheon to be hosted by Raut in his honour. He will return home later this afternoon. Published on December 12th, Wednesday, 2018 11:58 AM 
Kathmandu, December 12 Five electric buses that Sajha Yatayat planned to ply Kathmandu roads are gathering dust at its garage for past two months. In October, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had inaugurated the operation of these buses. Though the Asian Development Bank had given these buses to Lumbini Development Trust to serve pilgrims visiting the birthplace of Lord Buddha, the Sajha Yatayat had convinced the trust to operate them in Kathmandu till the construction of Gautam Buddha International Airport in Bhairahawa will be over. However, the buses could not operate as Kathmandu does not have any charging station. The bus manufacturer has said it can prepare a charging station in the capital in next three months. Sajha’s Executive Director Bhusan Tuladhar says the cooperative had borrowed the buses to pilot the operation of electric buses in the capital as it is preparing to import more such buses. He, however, says the plan will not be executed immediately. Published on December 12th, Wednesday, 2018 11:35 AM 
Kathmandu, December 11 Minister for Finance Yubaraj Khatiwada says the country’s economy is suffering from fever. The Minister, however, comments that this fever is slight like the one children suffer when they lose their teeth. He says it cannot leave any long term impact. Minister Khatiwada’s statement comes at a time when some share market investors of the country have launched a protest demanding his resignation. They have claimed that the Minister does not understand their value in the national economy. But, speaking at a meeting of the Finance Committee in the House of Representatives on Tuesday afternoon, the economist turned politician said he wanted to utilise the money of capital market into productive sectors so that the national economy would grow. He claimed the government was aware of the capital market. Khatiwada assured that no one should panic as the country’s economy was moving towards a positive direction.   Published on December 11th, Tuesday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Kathmandu, December 11 A parliamentary committeeÂ  on Monday consulted local stakeholders of Nijgadh and surrounding areas in Bara district in view of constructing an international airport there. The National Concern and Coordination Committee of the Federal Parliament had moblised the team for an onsite study. During the visit, stakeholders raised concerns over the residence of around 1,500 households of landless squatters in the area, according to the Committee’s secretary Sudarshan Kuinkel. Kuinkel informs that the squatters demanded that they be relocated before the construction of the airport. Local people’s representatives also supported the demand. Meanwhile, the team found that chopping down the trees would not be any big issue in the construction process, according to the official. “There is not any problem to move forward the construction works,” Kuinkel says, “A formal directive will be issued after the team comes back to Kathmandu and the Committee holds its meeting.” The team is returning to Kathmandu today. Published on December 11th, Tuesday, 2018 1:44 PM 
Morang, December 11 The presidium coordinator of Rastriya Janata Party Nepal, Rajendra Mahato, says his party would not join the incumbent KP Sharma Oli-led government now. Mahato’s statement comes sometimes after it was reported that Mahato replaced Mahantha Thakur at the top position of the party as two had differences over various political issues including joining the government. Some reports had claimed that Mahato wants to be a part of the two-thirds majority government. But, speaking with journalists in Biratnagar on Tuesday, the chief of Madhesh-centric party said his party would not join the government unless the government addressed its major demands of constitution amendment and withdrawal of the cases filed against its cadres. He informed that a central committee meeting to be held after few days would decide if the party would withdraw the support extended to the government. Mahato also warned that the party would launch a street movement to press the government for meeting the demands. Published on December 11th, Tuesday, 2018 12:40 PM 
Jhapa, December 11 Chief Justice Om Prakash Mishra says baseless comments and criticism would weaken the judiciary. Inaugurating a national conference on human rights organised by Nepal Bar Association in Jhapa on Monday, CJ Mishra said, “Vague allegations that anomalies and corruption are propping up in judiciary do not make sense. One should lodge complaints stating who took how much (bribe) and when”. He also called for support from all sides in the campaign to get the judiciary free from anomalies. The Chief Justice also stated that Nepal Bar Association should play an effective role for judiciary’s independence and efficiency. On the occasion, Province 1 Minister for Internal Affairs and Law Hikmat Karki said that the people could realise justice only when the judiciary was made further responsible and accountable. Also speaking on the occasion, NBA President Sher Bahadur KC asserted that 75 per cent corruption would come down if the justices and legal practitioners were ready to mend their conducts. As many as 1,000 legal practitioners across the country took part in the conference coordinated by NBA, Jhapa Chapter. RSS Published on December 11th, Tuesday, 2018 11:57 AM 
Kathmandu, December 10 Police on Monday detained some prominent human rights activists of the country while they were staging a demonstration in front of the Prime Minister’s official residence in Baluwatar of Kathmandu. The activists had launched the demonstration, on the occasion of International Human Rights Day, protesting impunity created due to the government’s failure to book culprits of various cases. Human Rights and Peace Society, the organisation which hosted the event, says its founder Krishna Pahadi, chairman Uttam Pudasaini, advisor Ganga Dhar Adhikari, founding member Krishna Kandel and treasurer Ram Krishna Baral among others were detained. Total 25 people were detained, according to the Society. They have been taken to Kamalpokhari-based Metropolitan Police Circle. Among the issues that the demonstrators protested was the government’s failure to conclude the investigation into the rape and murder of 13-year-old Nirmala Pant in Kanchanpur. Published on December 10th, Monday, 2018 2:22 PM 
Kathmandu, December 10 The first meeting of the Interprovincial Council of Nepal after the promulgation of the federal constitution has been over on Monday. The meeting of the Council comprising the Prime Minister, some ministers of the federal government, and chief ministers of all the provinces had begun on Sunday. The government spokesperson and Minister for Communications and Information Technology, Gokul Prasad Banskota, says the meeting has formed a five member panel to document discussions and decisions of the two day meeting in a report. The team will submit its report to the Prime Minister on Tuesday next week. Members of the panel are Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa, Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada, Federal Affairs Minister Lalbabu Pandit, Province 2 Chief Minister Lalbabu Raut and Province 5 Chief Minister Shankar Pokhrel. Chief Secretary Lok Darshan Regmi will work as the Member Secretary. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Oli expressed his commitment to implementing decisions of the meeting, according to Banskota. Published on December 10th, Monday, 2018 2:11 PM 
Kathmandu, December 10 The Law, Justice and Human Rights Committee in Parliament has directed the government not to miss the deadline of March 5, 2015 that the constitution has fixed to amend laws that contradict the constitution. As the constitution has it that all laws contradicting the charter have to be amended within the first year from the beginning of the first session of Federal Parliament, the government has less than three weeks to complete the task. Therefore, the panel’s meeting on Monday urged the government to speed up the process. The constitution states that the laws contradicting the constitution will automatically be null and void if they are not amended by the deadline. Officials of Parliament including Speaker of the House of Representatives Krishna Bahadur Mahara and Chairman of the National Assembly Ganesh Prasad Timilsina have also put pressure on the government over the issue. Published on December 10th, Monday, 2018 1:57 PM 
Kathmandu, December 9 The government says it will not let public vehicles ply from the roads from next Sunday (December 16) if they are not registered as private companies yet. Few months back, the government had decided to stop renewing and registering the transport entrepreneur committees as nonprofit orgaisations in a bid to end the monopoly of certain committee on certain routes. However, the government had provided the time till mid-December to the transport entrepreneurs get registered as private companies. In past six months, total 1,500 companies have been registered, according to Gokarna Prasad Upadhyaya, spokesperson of the Department of Transport Management. The government hopes the monopoly of transport committees would end after the implementation of new provision. Published on December 9th, Sunday, 2018 4:15 PM 
Kathmandu, December 9 Nilamber Acharya, who has been nominated for Nepal’s Ambassador to India, has said it takes a lot of hard work to improve Nepal-India relations. Speaking at a hearing session of the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee on Sunday, Acharya said, “There is only one formula: erasing doubts and building trust.” He reiterated that open communication would be instrumental to ensure that change. On the occasion, the former minister said he agreed to take up the assignment even in his 70s after realising that a senior personality must be there to handle the multidimensional relations. “I am not taking it as a paid job,” he said, “The Nepal-India ties are challenging, and I have understood its seriousness.” “I think I can do something. I am ready to take up the job.” The Committee is likely to endorse Acharya for the position after the meeting. Published on December 9th, Sunday, 2018 3:58 PM 
Kathmandu, December 9 Nepal Communist Party leader and former Prime Minister Jhala Nath Khanal has demanded that the incumbent government led by his party Chairman KP Sharma Oli be overhauled. Khanal argues that the entire party will bear the brunt if the government fails, hence the party should do anything if it improves the performance of government. One of the four leaders who boycotted the party’s Secretariat meeting on Saturday says he will continue his struggle inside the party seeking reforms. Khanal claims the party leadership called a meeting of the Standing Committee for this Saturday after the four leaders including himself, Madhav Kumar Nepal, Bamdev Gautam and Narayan Kaji Shrestha boycotted the meeting yesterday. Speaking at a function in Kathmandu on Sunday, the leader said, “We have been struggling; and we will continue it.” Published on December 9th, Sunday, 2018 3:34 PM 
Kathmandu, December 9 The chief of Nepal’s anticorruption constitutional body says he is worried about the institutionalisation of corruption in the country. Navin Kumar Ghimire, the chief of Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority, says the government must be serious about controlling corruption. Speaking at a function organised on the occasion of International Anticorruption Day on Sunday, the top official said, “The method of corruption has changed. We investigate, or try to investigate, into the issues accordingly.” Ghimire added that no one should be silent about corruption, claiming keeping mum would more corrupt than corruption itself. He said no one was free to get indulged in corrupt activities in the pretext of transitional time. Meanwhile, he said his office was committed to controlling corruption.   Published on December 9th, Sunday, 2018 12:57 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 9 A motorcyclist died while the pillion rider sustained injuries after a road mishap in Tokha Municipality-6 of Kathmandu on Saturday night. Subas Surkheti, 21, of Gorkha district and currently living in Basundhara in the capital succumbed to injuries after his motorcycle (Ba 65 Pa 8065) collided with a pole of telephone wire near Milantole, Tokha, police said. Sudip Surkheti of Gorkha sustained injuries in the incident and he is receiving treatment at Grande International Hospital, Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) of Metropolitan Police Circle in Maharajgunj, Phanindra Prasain said. According to DSP Prasain, motorcyclist Surkheti was under the influence of alcohol. RSS Published on December 9th, Sunday, 2018 11:56 AM 
Kathmandu, December 7 Implementing the order from the Prime Minister’s Office, the Department for Roads has started regularly using broomer machines to clean the roads of Kathmandu. Director General of the Department, Rabindra Nath Shrestha, says they have been cleaning the roads using the broomers regularly. Shrestha says that he and his department are working towards making sure the roads are clean and dust free. “We have been using the broomers to clean the roads twice a day, in the morning and in the evening. If you look at the roads, you will see that the roads arenâ€™t as dusty as they were before,” adds Shrestha. Previously, the broomers were only used to clean the roads before VIP motorcades only. Shrestha also adds that the department is also working at cleaning the gutters as well as fixing the potholes on the road. He confidently adds that apart from Nagdhunga-Kalaki and Jorpati-Sankhu roads, one will not find any big pothole on other roads. “We look after 300 km roads in Kathmandu. We’ve been maintaining them for a long time. We did it during the BIMSTEC Summit and recently concluded Asia Pacific Summit.” He informs that the department has its own bitumen plant, which means it does not have to rely on the contractors to repair roads. “If anyone sees any hole on the roads, they can tell us. We will repair it as soon as possible.”   Published on December 7th, Friday, 2018 3:38 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 7 Over 200,000 people who have passed both the written test and trial examination are yet to receive their smart licences. According to the Transport Management Office, the number of people who have passed their exams and paid the licence fee has reached up to 557,700. Both new licence holders as well as those who have applied for the renewal haven’t received their licences. According to the office, 354,000 have received their smart licences whereas 203,000 papers are yet to be printed. Those who have passed their licence examination a year ago havenâ€™t received their smart licences and make do with the receipt instead. “I’ve been going to the transport office every few months. They always tell me to come back later,” says Ranjana Maharjan, who passed her tests 10 months ago. The transport office says that the reason for the delay is due to the inefficient printing machine which can only print around 5,000 licences a day. Another reason for the delay is that licences from all districts are printed in the transport office at Ekantkuna.   Published on December 7th, Friday, 2018 12:47 PM 
Kathmandu, December 7 Nepali Congress leader Prakash Man Singh says the incumbent government is panacking after it suffered its ‘complete failure’. he lawmaker claims Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s recent statement about intellectuals of the country is indicative of his panic. On Wednesday this week, Oli on a television programme had said the government was aware of the criticisms made by the intellectual community, warning he could beat them if necessary. Speaking at a function in Kathmandu on Friday, Singh also expressed his dissatisfaction with his party’s role in the present political context. Commenting the party failed to effectively deal with the government’s wrongdoing, he urged the cadres to stay alert and active. Published on December 7th, Friday, 2018 12:22 PM 
Dang, December 7 Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara has said that the social security scheme unveiled by the government would be effective. Speaking at a programme organised to release a novel ‘Lucky Charm’ written by Sabin Priyasan in Ghorahi of Dang district on Friday, speaker Mahara said that the 16-day campaign on violence against women needed to be launched in a successful manner. In a separate context, Speaker Mahara said that there is a challenge to amend some laws by mid-February 2019, adding that those laws would be scrapped automatically if they were not amended by the winter session of the House. Commenting on the novel, Mahara said that the book was written by deeply analysing the history and social incidents. RSS Published on December 7th, Friday, 2018 11:34 AM 
Janakpurdham, December  6 Chairperson of Rastriya Prajatantra Party, Kamal Thapa, has said that the party would launch a campaign from coming February 19 next year in order to restore Nepal as Hindu state as secularism was declared in the country under the pressure of foreign forces. He says the incumbent government’s ‘extravagant’ participation in a programme organised by an organisation promoting a particular religion was objectionable. At a news conference organsied by Media Nepal here today, Chairman Thapa said such activities of the government attacked the faith of many Hindu people. He expressed the view that people were disappointed due to activities of the incumbent government. Likewise, these activities might push the country into uncertainty, according to him. RSS Published on December 6th, Thursday, 2018 2:27 PM 
Kathmandu, December 6 Nepal Police on Thursday detained 11 members of a youth group who were staging a protest in front of the President’s Office, Sheetal Niwas, in Maharajgunj of Kathmandu. They demonstrators,Â who wore black bands around their heads with ‘I Nirmala’ slogan, had launched the protest against the government’s failure to conclude investigations into the rape and murder of Nirmala Pant in Kanchanpur around five months ago. The demonstrators had scheduled the protest this afternoon as President Bidya Devi Bhandari was coming home from a formal trip to Poland. The detainees have been now kept at the custody of Maharajgunj-based Metropolitan Police Circle. DSP Phanindra Prasain says they will be released soon. Published on December 6th, Thursday, 2018 2:14 PM 
Kathmandu, December 6 Concerned officials of the government of Nepal say they have launched a preparation to establish the Electricity Regulation Commission for the first time in the country. The five member commission is expected to be formed soon as two years have already passed since the enactment of the Electricity Regulation Commission Act. The new commission will take over regulatory roles of the Nepal Electricity Authority. Likewise, it will also take initiatives for the protection of interests of electricity consumers. A panel formed under the leadership of Energy Secretary Sanjaya Sharma to appoint members of the commission. It has called for applications from the experts. Thursday is the last date to submit the applications. It has been said the another Energy Secretary Anup Kumar Upadhyaya is almost certain to get the top position in the new body. He had recently tendered his resignation from the current position so as to secure the new position, according to sources. Published on December 6th, Thursday, 2018 1:36 PM 
Kathmandu, December 5 Students affiliated to the Nepal Students Union (NSU), the student wing of Nepali Congress (NC), have been padlocking the offices of the Tribhuvan University (TU)’s officer-bearers in connection to arbitrarily granting colleges the TU affiliation. The student leaders and cadres padlocked the offices of TU’s Vice-Chancellor among others, protesting that the TU had granted affiliation arbitrarily to the certain private and community colleges for running the course of Bachelors of Computer Applications (BCA). NSU leader Jagadish Bhatta shared that they padlocked the offices of TU office-bearers since December 2. According to him, the TU had recently granted affiliation to 116 colleges for running the BCA course. They have also demanded the withdrawal of application. Bhatta said that they would continue with their protest until their demand was met. The daily works of the TU’s had been obstructed due to the padlock, said Executive Director of the Planning Directorate Hridish Kumar Pokharel. RSS Published on December 5th, Wednesday, 2018 4:38 PM 
Kathmandu, December 5 The temperature in most of the parts of country dipped on Wednesday as a result of partial cloudy skies due to impact of westerly wind. According to the Meteorological Forecasting Division, there are chances of light snowfall at a few places of the high mountainous region today and isolated brief rain has been predicted in one or two places of the hilly region. Though the minimum temperature has not been affected, constant temperature during the daytime has caused the cold in several parts of the country including the Kathmandu Valley, says meteorologist Ganga Nagarkoti. The Division has forecast partly cloudy sky in the hilly regions tonight and mainly fair sky in the rest of the country. Sporadic brief rain is likely to occur in one or two places of the hilly regions. RSS Published on December 5th, Wednesday, 2018 3:30 PM 
Kathmandu, December 5 Members of the Public Accounts Committee in Parliament have demanded that the government immediately launch an investigation into the suspected irregularities in the purchase of two wide body aircraft for the national flag carrier, Nepal Airlines Corporation. Criticising Minister for Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari for his failure to take action, they also demanded that the Corporation’s Managing Director Sugar Ratna Kansakar resign. If he fails to quit, the government should sack him, according to the parliamentarians. Speaking at a meeting of the Committee in Kathmandu on Wednesday, lawmaker of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, Bishal Bhattarai, demanded that Kansakar resign as the Office of the Auditor General had also accused him of irregularities. Likewise, lawmaker Prem Aale said irregularities were evident as the Corporation purchased the aircraft through an agent though it could procure them directly. Lawmaker Birodh Khatiwada questioned why the government did not have any business plan for the expensive aeroplanes. Published on December 5th, Wednesday, 2018 3:00 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 5 For the first time in the country, Nepal Electricity Authority has introduced a new system, in which its staffers need not visit individual households to read power metres and decide their charges. In the first phase, the advance metre reading infrastructure (AMI) has been installed at 362 residential houses and office buildings which are under Ratna Park distribution centre of the NEA. According to NEA engineer Dristi Pandey, the individual metres are equipped with a modem under the new system, and it allows reading the metre from the distribution centre itself. Corporate customers are on the priority for now, and domestic customers will benefit in the second phase, according to the distribution centre chief Thir Kumar Khatri. It has been said that the new technology is a step of the NEA’s journey towards smart metre system. Published on December 5th, Wednesday, 2018 11:54 AM 
Kathmandu, December 5 Two days after the Constitutional Council failed to nominate the next Chief Justice, sources close to the ruling Nepal Communist Party have accused the main opposition Nepali Congress of intentionally deferring the discussion as it wanted some share in vacant constitutional positions. On the Council meeting on Monday, Congress president Sher Bahadur Deuba, who represents the main opposition party in the Council, had requested other members to defer the discussion as he had to attend the party’s Central Working Committee meeting. Deuba did so as he wanted to discuss the issue with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, according to the sources. They claim the opposition party is eyeing at vacant positions of commissioners at the anti-corruption agency, CIAA. Otherwise, Deuba did not have any reason for deferring the discussion Cholendra Shamsher Rana was the sole candidate for the position, the sources claim. The party had openly backed his name while he was endorsed for the apex court judgeship four years ago. The Judicial Council has recommended Deepak Raj Joshee also, but he is unlikely to make it to the final nomination as the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee had rejected his name for the Chief Justice some months ago. Meanwhile, the Congress has refused to accept the charge. The party’s chief whip Bal Krishna Khand says the party has just stated that apolitical persons should be appointed to such positions. Published on December 5th, Wednesday, 2018 11:20 AM 
Kathmandu, December 4 The Metropolitan Police Range in Kathmandu has refused to register a complaint that claimed Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli tried to force people for converting to Christianity. Advocate Bhupendra Prasad Pokharel had gone to the Range office in Teku today, with the complaint that Oli’s activities during the recent Asia Pacific Summit tried to force people for conversion. However, Chief of the Range, SSP Basanta Lama, denied registering the complaint claiming Pokharel failed to demonstrate adequate evidence and he also tried to politicise the issue. “He shouted at me. I cited evidence which has already been made public and appealed for an investigation,” the complainant says, “But he said no and forced me to return.” Pokharel has also accused Ek Nath Dhakal, the Nepal chapter president of Universal Peace Federation, which organised the function, of forcing people for conversion. Published on December 4th, Tuesday, 2018 4:34 PM 
 Kathmandu, December 4 Police in Kathmandu say they have arrested an Indian national for his alleged involvement in a khukuri attack on a textile trader in Tilganga of the capital. Chief of the Gaushala-based Metropolitan Police Circle, DSP Sunil Malla, says 18-year-old Aananda Kumar from Bihar of India was arrested. He was residing in Tilganga. Police have accused him of attacking 30-year-old Pramila Wagle with the sharp weapon on Monday afternoon. Meanwhile, the injured victim is undergoing treatment at Om Hospital in Chabahil. She is said to be out of danger. Police say they have not identified the motive of murder yet, and further investigation is underway. The suspect is producing different statements about the incident, hence the probe is difficult, according to the investigators. Published on December 4th, Tuesday, 2018 2:09 PM 
Kathmandu, December 4 The government has decided to add the equal amount to the prize money that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli recently received from controversial Universal Peace Federation as Leadership and Good Governance Award. Prime Minister Oli had received USD 100,000. Oli has already handed over the prize to the government and the government will add the equal amount to establish a fund for the development of youth and children, according to a minister. He says the Cabinet meeting held on Monday evening made the decision. PM Oli himself had expressed his interest to channelise the fund to support education and development of children and youth from underdeveloped and Dalit communities, the minister informs. With the decision, a fund worth Rs 25 million will be established. Meanwhile, the Cabinet also endorsed the Staff Adjustment Ordinance. Published on December 4th, Tuesday, 2018 1:54 PM 
Hetaunda, December 4 The next meeting of Provincial Assembly of Province would finalise the province’s name of its permanent capital. An all-party meeting held on Monday at the call of Provincial Speaker Sanu Kumar Shrestha decided to finalise the capital of the province through the parliamentary process. Deputy Speaker Radhika Tamang said that initiatives would be taken to finalise the issue of capital on consensus. though a voting would be held at end . Tamang said, “We have to follow the parliamentary process even after finalising the issue through consensus. Voting would be held in there was no consensus as well.” However, the next meeting of the Provincial Assembly has not been scheduled yet. Published on December 4th, Tuesday, 2018 11:09 AM 
Pokhara, December 2 Vice Chairperson of the National Assembly, Shashi KalaÂ  Dahal, says the next Parliament session is likely to begin in the third week of December. Dahal claims the beginning of the next session has been delayed as the government has failed to ensure sufficient business for the Federal Parliament. Speaking with journalists in Pokhara on Sunday, the leader also complained that the government did not make adequate progress to formulate new laws and amend old ones in order to ensure effective implementation of the constitution. “The House has not operated as the government failed to provide business,” she said, “We have been putting pressure on the government.” Meanwhile, the leader of ruling Nepal Communist Party said she was not satisfied with the pace of the government. She, however, defended that the pace was slower as it was trying to establish a new system. Published on December 2nd, Sunday, 2018 3:25 PM 
Kathmandu, December 2 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said Nepal would take initiatives from its side to hold the 19th SAARC Summit in Pakistan. During a meeting with the former Prime Minister of Pakistan, Yusuf Raza Gilani, who is currently in Nepal in course of the ongoing Asia Pacific Summit, PM Oli said Nepal, as the current Chair of SAARC, would play a role to hold the next SAARC Summit in Pakistan and was desperate to hand over the chairing position. Although the 18th SAARC Summit had decided to hold the next summit in Pakistan, the misunderstanding between India and Pakistan has been hindering the schedule. According to PMâ€™s foreign affairs advisor, Rajan Bhattarai, the former Prime Minister of Pakistan said the Pakistani people and political parties were committed to SAARC and ready to host the summit. PM Oli also reiterated that Nepal was for making the regional organisation effective. RSS Published on December 2nd, Sunday, 2018 2:51 PM 
Kathmandu, December 2 Lawmakers vented ire after Minister for Water Supply Bina Magar failed to show up at a meeting of the Development and Technology Committee of Parliament on Sunday. The Committee had called the meeting to review the progress made by Melamchi Water Supply Project. Member of the Committee and Former Prime Minister Jhala Nath Khanal says the minister skipping the significant meeting is sad. Lawmaker Rajendra Rai also echoed him. Minister Magar had sent the Ministry’s Secretary Gajendra Thakur to the meeting. Though Thakur was present, he also refused to speak and directed Executive Director of the Project, Surya Lal Kandel, to give a presentation. Kandel, on his part, said the project would be complete within next two months. The lawmakers, however, criticised him arguing he failed to present convincing bases to support his claim. Published on December 2nd, Sunday, 2018 2:38 PM 
Kathmandu, December 2 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who also chairs the Constitutional Council, has called a meeting of the Council to recommend the name of the new Chief Justice. Incumbent Om Prakash Mishra is retiring on January 1, and the Judicial Council has already recommended two names to the Constitutional Council, beginning the recruitment process. Sources at the Prime Minister’s Secretariat says the meeting will be held at 11 am on Monday. It is likely that the meeting will nominate Cholendra Shamsher JB Rana for the top judicial position as the second person recommended by the Judicial Council, Deepak Raj Joshee, was rejected by the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee earlier. The Constitutional Council will send one name to the House panel. If endorsed by the panel, the President will appoint and administer oath of office to the Chief Justice. Published on December 2nd, Sunday, 2018 12:28 PM 
Kathmandu, November 30 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba has claimed that his party is the only party in the country that adheres to democratic socialism. Addressing a youth conference jointly organised here today by the International Union of Socialist Youth, Nepal Students Union and Nepal Tarun Dal here today, leader Deuba reiterated that his was the party that had been striving for democracy since its establishment. Stating that the conflict was resolved and the peace process had been led to a success during the leadership of NC, he also reminded that the federal republican democratic constitution was also promulgated during the NC’s leadership. Also speaking at the programme, NC Vice-President Bimalendra Nidhi echoed with Deuba and asserted that the country had received constitution with the features as federalism, republicanism and full democracy during the NC’s leadership. The party’s General Secretary Shashanka Koirala and other leaders also spoke at the function. RSS Published on November 30th, Friday, 2018 3:53 PM 
Kathmandu, November 30 Police in Kathmandu say they have detained some human rights activities while they were staging a protest in front of the Indian Embassy here. Amnesty International Nepal, one of the leading human rights groups of the country, has organised the demonstration in relation with a human rights violation case in India. Those detained include AI Nepal Chairperson Bikram Dhukuchhu and General Secretary Karna Bahadur Kunwal. They are kept at the Metropolitan Police Circle office in Lainchaur. DSP Hobinda Bogati, spokesperson of the Metropolitan Police Range, says the demonstrators were arrested as they obstructed the movement of VVIPs who are in Kathmandu for the Asia Pacific Summit. He assures that they will be released soon. Published on November 30th, Friday, 2018 3:01 PM 
Kathmandu, November 30 Nearly two dozen leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, who had submitted a memorandum to the party leadership demanding regular meetings of key committees and early completion of the party unification, have decided to expand their campaign to the district level. The leaders say they received positive feedback from participants of a review meeting held in Kathmandu; hence decided to continue expressing their voices. Meanwhile, the leaders claim some additional Central Committee members extended their support to the campaign. They include Sita Giri, Dilu Panta, Krishna Khanal and PL Shrestha. Jagannath Khatiwada, who has been leading the campaign, says they have already met chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal, and leaders Madhav Kumar Nepal, Jhala Nath Khanal, Bamdev Gautam and Narayn Kaji Shrestha over the issues. He claims all the leaders said their concerns were genuine. Another chair and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, however, has not given them time for the meeting. Likewise, Ishwar Pokharel and Ram Bahadur Thapa are also reluctant. Published on November 30th, Friday, 2018 12:26 PM 
Kathmandu, November 30 Myanmar’s State Counsellor and Minister for Foreign Affairs Aung San Suu Kyi on Friday called on Nepal’s President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli separately. Suu Kyi is on a two day official visit to Nepal since Thursday. She is also scheduled to attend the inauguration of Asia Pacific Summit in Kathmandu today. Issues of bilateral relations and mutual concerns were discussed during both the meetings, according to sources. It has been learned that Suu Kyi and President Bhandari also talked on some personal issues. The delegate had gone to the President’s Office at Sheetal Niwas before meeting Oli at Hotel Annapurna. Suu Kyi is scheduled to leave for myanmaM next week after addressing the Asia Pacific Summit on Saturday. Published on November 30th, Friday, 2018 12:06 PM 
 Ghorahi, November 30 A businessperson was found murdered near Sewakhola Bridge in Ghorahi Sub-Metropolitan City-13 of Dang district on Thursday night. The deceased is identified as Nanda Bahadur Gharti, 49, of Rolpa district, who was doing his hardware business near Ghorahi Buspark here, according to police. Chief of the District Police Office, Bel Bahadur Pandey ,said that Gharti, who was recovered lying unconscious at around 8:00 last night, died during the medical treatment at Rapti Health Science Academy. Police said that a suspected murderer was held on Thursday night and the investigations are ongoing into the case. RSS Published on November 30th, Friday, 2018 11:03 AM 
Kathmandu, November 29 Actor Morgan Freeman, best known for his works in Shawshank Redemption, Million Dollar Baby and Invictus, has been spotted in Kathmandu. He is learnt to be here in Kathmandu to shoot a TV series – The Story of God.  As part of the series, he visits various places and experiences different religions. The series seeks to understand how faith has shaped human lives across the globe. A tweet by the University of North Texas mentioned that Professor Panakaj Jain was in Kathmandu to participate in the filming of the documentary, which is not complete without Freeman coming on location.   This week @ProfPankajJain is in Kathmandu, Nepal to participate in the filming of a documentary on Jainism and to give a lecture on EcoDharma at a local NGO there. The documentary is part of Morgan Freeman’s ongoing series on the story of God! https://t.co/TGXF1OvHgz — UNT Phil & Rel (@UNT_Philosophy) November 27, 2018  Later, Jain tweeted: Shooting inside the #Jain Temple at #Kathmandu #Nepal with #MorganFreeman for an episode on Jainism for the series #StoryOfGod for #NationalGeographic TV pic.twitter.com/Exqs93OYqW — Pankaj पंकज Jain (@ProfPankajJain) November 29, 2018  The producers of the series have kept the shoot private and not informed the media about it. A handful of drivers told Onlinekhabar they spotted him around the Ring Road on Wednesday. What Freeman shot in Kathmandu during his stay will only be known after the series airs on National Geographic. The dates remain a mystery. Published on November 29th, Thursday, 2018 2:44 PM 
Kathmandu, November 29 Police on Thursday detained some youth who were staging a protest at Maitighar Mandala against the Asia Pacific Summit that is beginning in Kathmandu on Friday. Members of the public and stakeholders have been protesting the event as its organiser, Universal Peace Federation, is notorious for forcing people for conversion into a particular group of Christians. The demonstrators also protested the government inability to investigate into the rape and murder of Nirmala Pant and bring the culprit to book. The protesters showed placards and chanted slogans against the government and the event. Published on November 29th, Thursday, 2018 2:33 PM 
Kathmandu, November 29 Nepali Congress youth leader Gagan Thapa has called on people of Kathmandu to break the odd-even rationing in the movement of vehicles and two-wheelers imposed by the government in Kathmandu Valley beginning today. In its bid to ensure smooth and secure movement of the international VVIP delegates of the Asia Pacific Summit, the government has decided to let vehicles with odd and even registration numbers on alternate days for next four days. However, the popular youth leader says such rule gives problems to people in their daily life, hence such rules have to be violated. Further, the organiser of the summit, Universal Peace Federation, has been involved in forced conversion, hence the move is wrong, he argues. “It is citizens’ responsibility to disobey the wrong order of the government,” he wrote in a Facebook post today.   Published on November 29th, Thursday, 2018 2:24 PM 
Kathmandu, November 28 The Finance Committee in the House of Representatives has formed a team to carry out a study on various dimensions of hydropower development in Nepal. A meeting of the Committee on Wednesday decided to form the five-member panel. Ruling Nepal Communist Party’s Ghanashyam Bhusal leads the team. Other four members are Ram Kumari Jhankri, Ram Babu Kumar Yadav, Sarbat Aara Khanam Halwaini and Hari Raj Adhikari. The Committee has asked the team to submit its report within next 15 days. In particular, the panel has been directed to collect information on details of people and firms who have been licensed to develop hydro projects and progresses they have made. Likewise, it will also study if financial transactions of the projects are happening in line with constitutional and legal provisions and if the state is getting due revenues from them. Published on November 28th, Wednesday, 2018 2:27 PM 
Kathmandu, November 28 As the main opposition Nepali Congress is preparing to finalise the party statute amendment proposal to table at the mahasamiti meeting, the faction opposing party President Sher Bahadur Deuba has held its meeting on Wednesday. The party has called the meeting of its Central Working Committee for Thursday. The meeting is expected to finalise the draft proposal prepared by a panel. One day before that, General Secretary Shashanka Koirala called influential leaders Ram Chandra Paudel and Krishna Prasad Sitaula among others for a meeting so that they could present their voice unitedly tomorrow. Just on Monday, another leader of the camp, Sujata Koirala had hosted some youth leaders of party at her house for a ‘lunch meeting’. As the party is heading towards the mahasamiti meeting, both factions of the party have expedited their preparations to draft the party statute as they wish. The mahasamiti meeting has been scheduled for mid-December.     Published on November 28th, Wednesday, 2018 1:55 PM 
Kathmandu, November 28 The Public Accounts Committee of Parliament on Wednesday assigned the Public Procurement Monitoring Committee under the Office of the Prime Minister to look into the deal of purchase of two wide body aircraft for Nepal Airlines Corporation. The parliamentary committee is currently probing if there were any irregularities in the deal as claimed by some media reports. Now, the panel has sought the support from the PPMOÂ  to deal with the issue. A meeting of the Committee has directed the PPMO to submit its report to the panel within next seven days. The Committee had summoned PPMO Secretary Madhu Prasad Regmi and Director Ram Chandra Sharma to discuss the issue. During the meeting, Regmi had told lawmakers that his office was unaware of the issue as the national flag carrier did not initiated cooperation. Then some members suggested that the PPMO be given a certain time to look into the issue. In response, Regmi had expressed his readiness to do the assignment. Published on November 28th, Wednesday, 2018 1:39 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 28 Two persons were killed while six others were critically injured after a jeep met with an accident in Thatikadh Rural Municipality of Dailekh district in Karnali Province. The jeep (Bhe 1 Cha 2207) heading to Bahakot of Thatikadh Rural Municipality from Surkhet district veered off the road at around 8 am on Wednesday. Rajendra Bahadur Shahi, 47, and Nirmal Bam, 30, of the same rural municipality. Details of the injured persons are awaited. Meanwhile, a vehicle knocked down a 19-year-old boy in Teku of Kathmandu this morning. The yet-to-be-identified vehicle hit Jiban Singh, from Kanchanpur district and currently living in Kiritpur in Kathmandu, at around 4 am today. He died on the way to Bir Hospital after the accident occurred in front of Kanak Petrol Pump near Teku Bridge, the police said. RSS Published on November 28th, Wednesday, 2018 10:53 AM 
Kathmandu, November 27 Nepali Congress leader Sujata Koirala on Tuesday hosted a lunch meeting inviting selected leaders of her party, at her private residence in Mandikhatar of Kathmandu. This is Koirala’s second lunch meeting in past 15 days. Earlier on November 12, Koirala had invited senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel,Â General Secretary Shashanka Koirala, Prakash Man Singh, Ram Sharan Mahat, Arjun Narsingha KC and Shekhar Koirala for the similar meeting. It was said that the meeting was held to discuss consolidating the camp against party President Sher Bahadur Deuba. Influential leader Krishna Prasad Sitaula, who reportedly missed the last meeting, was present today. Mahat and KC were the repeated guests. Besides, other invitees were from the young generation. They included Dhana Raj Gurung, Gagan Thapa, Chandra Bhandari Pradip Poudel and Jeevan Pariyar, among others. During the meeting, Koirala told the leaders that she did not have any lust for power, stressing she wanted to make informal conversations regular, according to an attendee. Published on November 27th, Tuesday, 2018 3:58 PM 
Kathmandu, November 27 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has responded to the ‘where is the government’ question raised by the main opposition Nepali Congress. Few days ago, the main opposition party’s spokesperson Bishwa Prakash Sharma had accused the government of failing to solve contemporary problems and meet people’s expectation, arguing the government could be seen nowhere. But, an sarcastic Prime Minister on Tuesday said the government would show its presence soon. “Ask the labourers and they will show you where the government is,” Oli said while launching the government’s much ambitious social security plan in the capital today. Claiming the government would complete the years-long Melamchi Water Supply Project “within some days,” he said, “All Kathmandu roads will be made clean. Then you will know where the government is. Go to Kalanki-Naagdhunga road and you can see the government there.” One day the opposition will see the government everywhere and stay silent, he hoped. Published on November 27th, Tuesday, 2018 3:41 PM 
Kathmandu, November 27 The Kathmandu Metropolitan City recently installed 12 smart solar dustbins along Maitighar-Baneshwor road. The local government says more such dustbins will be installed in different parts of the city soon. The programme is launched under the Public-Private Partnership Division of the local government. In the next phase, the bins will be installed around Tundikhel and Ranipokhari, along New Road-Basantapur, Maitighar-Thapathali and Bhadrakali-Singhadarbar roads, according to the Division’s Director Mahesh Kaphle. The city government currently has around 60 dustbins, ready to use. The smart bins are powered with solar energy therefore they can be seen in nighttime as well. The bins display pollution level and temperature of the respective area. Likewise, there are mobile phone charging plugs for emergency use. The city government had made a city to install such bins around two years ago. However, the implementation got delayed as it too quite long to find quality equipment, according to the Division. Published on November 27th, Tuesday, 2018 12:33 PM 
  Kathmandu, November 27 The Judicial Council has recommended two names to the Constitutional Council for the appointment of next Chief Justice as incumbent Om Prakash Mishra is retiring due to age limits on January 1 next year. Two seniormost justices of the Supreme Court, Deepak Raj Joshee and Cholendra Shamsher JB Rana, have been recommended for the consideration. However, the Judicial Council’s letter to the Constitutional Council mentions as a ‘comment’ that Joshee was rejected by the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee for the position of Chief Justice earlier. The Council’s Secretary Nripa Dhwaj Niraula saysÂ  the constitution requires the Constitutional Council to recommend the names for constitutional body chiefs ahead of one month and the nominations have been sent accordingly. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Council, headed by the Prime Minister, is not likely consider Joshee’s name for discussions and directly recommend Rana for the position, according to sources. The Constitutional Council is likely to hold a meeting later this week to forward the name of Rana to the PHSC, it has been learned. On the other hand, officials have already suggested Mishra to go on a home leave from next week as traditionally chief justices stay on leave in the last month. Mishra, however, did not agree, the sources say. There were just two qualified candidates for the position as one has to complete three years as the Supreme Court justice to become nominated for the top judicial position of the country. Published on November 27th, Tuesday, 2018 11:27 AM 
Kathmandu, November 27 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said that the First Social Security Day was the inception of the new era in the country. In a message today on the occasion of the ‘First Social Security Day’, the Prime Minister said that the government had unveiled a new system that would bring onboard all–haves and have-nots, employed or unemployed and those losing jobs as well. In his message, PM Oli said that the social security scheme would come into effort from Tuesday, adding that during his erstwhile premiership, he had committed to implementing the social security scheme with the participation of all. “We are entering into the new system from Tuesday itself for respecting the labour, encouraging all to devote to labour and protecting all as per the modern civilized society,” reads the PM’s message. Prime Minister Oli is launching the social security scheme amid a programme here today. Meanwhile, Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security Gokarna Bista has said that social security scheme was the matter of pride to the nation and the citizens. Minister Bista has also appealed all for their support to the implementation of the scheme. RSS Published on November 27th, Tuesday, 2018 10:50 AM 
Kathmandu, November 26 Former Prime Minister and Naya Shakti Party Nepal chief Baburam Bhattarai has provided Rs 100,000 to the parents of Nirmala Pant, the 13-year-old girl who was raped and murdered in Kanchanpur of farwestern Nepal around four months ago. Bhattarai says his cadres living in Australia collected the fund for the Pant family as the parents are fighting against the state for justice. The leader went to the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital on Monday and handed over the money to the victim’s father, Yagya Raj Pant. Yagya Raj is currently undergoing treatment at the hospital after he reportedly developed some symptoms of mental illness while staging an indefinite sit-in in Mahendranagar. On the occasion, Bhattarai said he was in solidarity with the victim’s family as Nirmala Pant was the ‘daughter of everyone’. Published on November 26th, Monday, 2018 2:12 PM 
Kathmandu, November 26 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says his government is aware of how to develop the country in a speedy manner. Addressing a meeting of a task force formed to estimate the human resource need of the country, in Singhadarbar on Monday, the Prime Minister said, “This government has information on how to move forward development activities in speed. We will show it to people so that they can trust us.” He said the government was now working on to identify what kinds of human resources were necessary to develop the country; and the task force should support the government in that task. “We want to make the country prosperous. For that, we need to know which sector needs how many human resources,” the Prime Minister directed, “The report of this task force should guide the supply of human resources for the country for next many years.” He was of the opinion that the task force should seriously carry out the assignment. The government had formed the seven member task force in October. Rudra Suwal-led panel includes Madhav Dahal, Indira Parajuli, Bishwa Bala Thapa, Bijaya Datta, Dhruva Gautam and Rajesh Ahiraj as members. Published on November 26th, Monday, 2018 2:00 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 26 The Nepal Bureau of Standards and Metrology has taken action against 12 petrol pumps for cheating consumers. The Bureau found that the fuel stations running in different parts of the country were conning customers by reducing five percent petroleum products per litre with the use of software. Those facing action are Bijay Oil Store, Shankar Oil Store and Amit Oil Store of Bara; Mamata Oil Store of Kalaiya; Swasthani Oil Store of Bariyapur; Shankar Oil Store of Rupandhi; Riyal Oil Suppliers of Kaplivastu; Khusbu Fuel Suppliers of Okhaldhunga; New Bagalamukhi Oil Store of Swayambhu, Kathmandu and others. Director General at Bureau, Bishwobabu Pudashaini, informed that the petrol pumps swindling customers were fined Rs 30,000 with imprisonment of three years. Even the pumps were sealed, he adds. RSS Published on November 26th, Monday, 2018 12:34 PM 
Kathmandu, November 25 The Prime Times Twenty20 Cricket Tournament will begin in the capital from January 15 next year, say the organisers. The tournament will last till January 24. The competition venue is Kirtipur-based Tribhuvan University International Cricket Ground. Mahakali Sports Society and Nepalaya International Event Management are jointly hosting the event. Three teams each from Nepal, India and Sri Lanka will participate in the tournament, said President of the Society Suman Bhatta at a press conference organised here today. The event is estimated to cost approximately Rs 8 million. RSS Published on November 25th, Sunday, 2018 3:42 PM 
Kathmandu, November 25 Nepali Congress lawmaker and the chairman of Public Accounts Committee in the House of Representatives, Bharat Kumar Shah, has claimed Rs 6.59 billion has been embezzled in the purchase of two wide body aircraft for the country’s national flag carrier, Nepal Airlines Corporation. Shah presented a five-page document during the Committee’s meeting on Sunday, raising questions against government authorities including the NAC and the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation. The state spent Rs 24 billion to purchase the aircraft, but more than 25 per cent of the spending was embezzled, according to him. “Businesspersons say that the manufacturing company gives 10 per cent commission to the procurer,” he asks, “But, where is the commission of Rs 2.4 billion that the NAC got?” He has urged the Corporation to answer the questions. Another parliamentary committee on Friday had formed a three-member panel to probe suspected irregularities. Published on November 25th, Sunday, 2018 3:23 PM 
Kavre, November 25 National Reconstruction Authority’s Chief Executive Officer Sushil Gyewali says the Authority will take action against its engineers if they are found working without staying at the assigned locations. He says the engineers must stay at the earthquake-affected villages. Speaking at a review meeting in Dhulikhel of Kavre on Sunday, Gyewali warned the Authority could fire the engineers if they disrespect the order to stay at the assigned locations. He added that the Authority had already begun keeping a record of such engineers. “The government is working on providing additional benefits to the engineers. We have proposed some incentives for them,” he said, “But, those receiving payment without going to the villages will face action.” He also warned of action against the banks if they do not release the payments to reconstruction grantees on time. Published on November 25th, Sunday, 2018 3:09 PM 
Kathmandu, November 25 A panel formed to propose amendments to the statute of Nepali Congress has submitted its draft report to the party’s Central Working Committee meeting on Sunday. The main opposition party is discussing the draft at the meeting that began in Kathmandu this morning. According to leaders, the panel has proposed that one leader hold only one position in the party. It means leaders of sister organisations cannot assume any role in the party committees and vice versa. Likewise, the number of officials at the central level will be kept same. However, some leaders have proposed increasing the number of officials and their views have also been included in the report as ‘notes of dissent’, according to the panel’s spokesperson Ramesh Lekhak. The dissidents have proposed three vice-presidents and five to seven joint general secretaries in the party. Lekhak says a meeting of the panel had endorsed the draft to submit to the CWC on Saturday. Published on November 25th, Sunday, 2018 2:24 PM 
Kathmandu, November 23 The International Relations and Labour Committee in the House of Representatives has formed a subpanel to investigate into suspected irregularities in the purchase of two wide body aircraft for Nepal Airlines Corporation, the country’s national flag carrier. A meeting of the Committee held in Kathmandu on Friday formed the three member committee. Main opposition Nepali Congress lawmaker Prakash Man Singh leads the team, which includes ruling Nepal Communist Party’s Narad Muni Rana and Federal Socialist Forum Nepal’s Renuka Gurung as members. The team has been mandated to submit its report to the Committee within next one month. Earlier, the Committee had discussed the issue with Civil Aviation Minister Rabindra Adhikari and NAC General Manager Sugat Ratna Kansakar among other officials. Minister Adhikari has expressed his commitment to extending needful support to the probe. Published on November 23rd, Friday, 2018 5:05 PM 
Kavre, November 24 Nepal’s Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Giriraj Mani Pokharel, says increasing commercialisation of education must end in order to serve all people of the country. He says commercialisation is increasing more rapidly than professionalism in the sector, and it is a threat to people’s access to education. Addressing the 24th convocation ceremony of Kathmandu University in Dhulikhel of Kavre district on Friday, the Minister discussed various problems of the sector. “It is our reality that all youth do not have an access to high education. The access to technical education is even lower,” he said, “The quality of education is decreasing. The number of educated unemployed is increasing.” “Likewise, there is a risk that responsible institutions may fail to carry out their duty.” On the occasion, 1,555 medical science students under various programmes received their graduation certificates. Published on November 23rd, Friday, 2018 4:58 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 23 Australian Ambassador to Nepal, Peter Budd bid farewell to recipients of the Australia Awards Scholarships for 2019, amid a programe in Kathmandu on Thursday. Altogether 29 scholars, including 13 government officials, will travel to Australia to commence their post-graduate level study in Australian universities. This year’s scholarships recipients include 17 women and 12 men. Three of the recipients are persons with disability, the Embassy of Australia stated in a press release. It is stated that the scholars will be studying a variety of courses under six priority sectors. Three will be enrolled in education, seven in economic development, two in gender inclusion and disability, eight in governance, six in health and three in water resource management. For 2019, the Australian Government offered 3,186 Australia Awards scholarships, fellowships and short courses to individuals from over 55 developing countries with an aim to transfer high-quality knowledge, skills and best-practice methodologies to equip them to directly contribute to both their workplaces and to the future development of their countries. Addressing the ceremony, Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi noted that six decades of partnerships between the government of Nepal and Australia has been fruitful. He stated that Australia has been a reliable development partner in the field of energy, education, livestock and forest management. Ambassador Budd congratulated the Australia Awards recipients and reminded them that they were selected to participate in Australia Awards for their potential to make significant contributions to the development of Nepal. Published on November 23rd, Friday, 2018 4:37 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 23 Nepali Congress General Secretary Shasank Koirala says whether Nepal is to remain secular or revert to the Hindu state status is a decision that needs to be taken by a referendum. Koirala, who is the son of Nepali Congress doyen BP, said the referendum will have to be organised in the future. “We are not saying we want a referendum immediately, but we need to hold a referendum after there is political stability in the country,” added Koirala. This is not the first time that Koirala, an ophthalmologist, has made such a remark. Ever since he kicked off his campaign for party general secretary in 2016, he has been saying that the issue should be put to vote. Shasanks’ critics say that he has risen meteorically in the party just because he is BP’s son, and in reality does not have what it takes to lead the party in the future. They also say that he still lives in the past, and has accepted the ground reality of the country. During an interview with the BBC  just ahead of the party’s convention, he said that Nepali Congress should revise its stance on key issues such as monarchy and federalism. Published on November 23rd, Friday, 2018 2:58 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 23 Asian Development Bank, one of the major development partners of the Nepal government, has called on the government to improve project implementation performance if it wants to further tap investment opportunities available from its donors. Published on November 23rd, Friday, 2018 12:39 PM 
Parsa, November 22 Police in Parsa district say they have arrested an Indian national in possession of 10 kg undeclared silver from the district’s major trade hub, Birgunj, on Thursday morning. The 30-year-old Gulsan Sah Kanu, a resident of Thana Chanpatia in West Champaran district of Bihar state, was arrested on the basis of a tip-off, according to DSP Man Bahadur Rai, spokesperson of the District Police Office. Police had arrested him from Sirsiya Khalwatole of the city as he was trying to cross the border on a motorcycle. Two packets of silver, weighing five kilo each, were hidden inside the air filter of the bike. The suspect told police that he was taking the silver from a local bank to his boss. He, however, refused to give the identity of the boss. Police say the suspect will be sent to the Department of Revenue Investigation for further probe. Published on November 22nd, Thursday, 2018 1:34 PM 
Morang, November 22 Locals of Duhabi Municipality in Sunsari district of eastern Nepal have continued demonstrating a protest against a murder of a local on Thursday as well. Mohammad Fida Hussain was shot dead by unidentified persons on Wednesday morning, and locals had resorted to the demonstration carrying his body in the afternoon. The locals continued the protest on the second day today as police failed to nab any suspect. Meanwhile, they have also demanded that the victim be declared a martyr and an appropriate ex gratia provided to his family. Mayor of the municipality, Bed Narayan Gachhadar, among other people’s representatives has extended their support to the protest. “We have already conveyed our demands to the government,” Gachhadar said, “The funeral will not be held till our demands are met.” The protesters had sent a five-point memorandum to the Prime Minister via the Chief District Officer yesterday. Meanwhile, the demonstrators have obstructed the Duhabi Bazaar section of Koshi Highway since the early morning today. Published on November 22nd, Thursday, 2018 1:19 PM 
Chitwan, November 22 Ruling Nepal Communist Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says only his party has the aim of developing the country. Dahal made the statement as he welcomed some cadres of Nepali Congress and Rastriya Prajatantra Party to his party in his home city, Bharatpur of Chitwan, on Thursday morning. On the occasion, he assured people that the government under his party’s leadership was currently reviewing its performance, and the results would appear soon in the form of improvements. He said the government was serious about addressing problems of landless and squatters. In a different context, the lawmaker representing Chitwan-3 in the House of Representatives said he would blacktop all roads in the district within next five years. Published on November 22nd, Thursday, 2018 12:42 PM 
Kathmandu, November 21 The Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee on Wednesday has called people to file complaints against four persons who have been recently nominated for Nepal’s ambassadors to different countries. A meeting of the Committee held this afternoon decided to give one week’s time beginning this Friday to file complaints against Nilambar Acharya, Anjan Shakya, Udaya Raj Pandey and Krishna Prasad Dhakal. Acharya, Shakya, Pandey and Dhakal have been nominated for Nepal’s missions in India, Israel, Malaysia and UAE respectively. Meanwhile, the panel has also decided to tell the government to send detailed documents on the criteria set for ambassadorial appointment for the study of its members, according to its cospokesperson Keshav Aryal. Published on November 21st, Wednesday, 2018 3:23 PM 
Duhabi, November 21 Locals of Duhabi in Sunsari district of eastern Nepal have staged a demonstration in the town on Wednesday afternoon,Â demanding Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa resign as he could not provide security to the public. The locals resorted to the protest after a local brick kiln staffer was shot dead by unidentified persons this morning. The demonstrators carried the body of Mohammad Fida Hussain and chanted slogans against the government. They also obstructed Biratnagar-Itahari road section of Koshi Highway, demanding the criminals be identified within next 24 hours. The protesters also said the government should declare him a martyr, provide due ex gratia to his family and provide an employment opportunity to the victim’s son. Earlier, two motorbike-borne persons had opened fire on the 54-year-man while he was on his morning walk. He had breathed his last while being taken to a Biratnagar-based hospital.   Published on November 21st, Wednesday, 2018 3:13 PM 
Kathmandu, November 21 The government says the Tatopani border point between Nepal and China, which has been closed after the 2015 earthquake, will be open for trade activities by May next year. The Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport says it will repair the road connecting Kathmandu to the border point. The road was severely damaged by the earthquake. The Department of Roads is preparing to call for tenders to repair the road. It has been learned that the Ministry has directed the Department to make sure that the works will be complete before May. However, officials say the government has not allocated sufficient funds to renovate the road. Currently, Rs 350 million has been allocated. Around two months ago, Minister for Physical Infrastructure and Transport, Raghubir Mahaseth, has visited the border point to assess needful works to reopen the trade activities via Tatopani. China, on the other hand, has expedited improving the condition of infrastructures on its side. Published on November 21st, Wednesday, 2018 3:01 PM 
Biratnagar, November 21 An unidentified gang on Wednesday morning opened fire on a brick kiln employee in Dubahi of Sunsari district in eastern Nepal. Mohammad Fida Hussein, supervisor of Jaya Baba Brick Factory in Duhabi-9 of Sunsari, died while being rushed to Biratnagar-based Neuro Hospital, according to SP Rajan Adhikari. Two persons on motorbikes had opened the fire at around 6:30 am today, according to police. Adhikari says the victim’s body has been kept at his residence. The family sources say the 54-year-old man was attacked during his routine morning walk. Motives behind the murder have not been ascertained. Police have launched an investigation to find out further details. Meanwhile, locals staged a demonstration and obstructed the road demanding action against the murderers. In September, a local school teacher was shot dead in the district. Leaders of the local Muslim community have expressed concerns over attacks on Muslim professionals in the district. Published on November 21st, Wednesday, 2018 10:50 AM 
Kathmandu, November 20 Asian Development Bank has agreed to provide $343.9 million as development assistance for two projects. At a programme organised at the Ministry of Finance on Tuesday, Secretary Rajan Khanal, on the behalf of the government of Nepal, and Country Director, Nepal Resident Mission, Mukhtor Khamudkhanov, on the behalf of ADB, signed the agreement to this effect. A total of $180 million from the $343.9 will go towards the for South Asia Sub-Regional Economic Cooperation (SASEC) Highway Improvement Project and $163.9 million towards the Disaster Resilience of School project. The loan proceeds available under SASEC Highway Improvement Project will support the rehabilitation and widening of about 87 kilometres of the East-west Highway between Kanchanpur and Kamala in eastern Nepal. The Disaster Resilience of School Project will support the reconstruction of heavily damaged schools, retrofitting of unsafe schools and strengthening the institutional capacity for disaster resilience. Published on November 20th, Tuesday, 2018 7:00 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 20 RJP leader Rajendra Mahato has been named the party’s new coordinator. Mahato replaces Mahanta Thakur, who held the position since the formation of the new party ahead of the elections last year. The appointment was made by a meeting of the party, which decided to provide members of the leadership to take charge of the party turn-by-turn. A party source said that the decision was taken to maintain discipline in the party and to organise its general convention. Published on November 20th, Tuesday, 2018 6:42 PM 
Kathmandu, November 20 Minister for Agriculture and Livestock Development Chakrapani Khanal has shared that the government is working to increase import taxes in banana so as to lessen its import from India. He also added that the rate and ratio of increasing the tax was under discussions with the Minister for Finance. Minister Khanal further said that they were planning to impose import tax in banana like ghee products. The government is collecting five per cent tax in importing bananas, but the banana farmers are demanding its increase up to 30 per cent. The farmers and entrepreneurs have claimed that they will fail to continue the banana farming if the import tax is not increased. RSS Published on November 20th, Tuesday, 2018 2:10 PM 
Kathmandu, November 20 The Development and Technology Committee in the House of Representatives could not hold its scheduled meeting on Tuesday as it fell short of quorum. The meeting was called to discuss the progress made by National Reconstruction Authority in post-earthquake reconstruction works in the affected districts. The Committee’s chairperson Kalyani Khadka had called the meeting for 11 am today, but sufficient numbers could not show up till 12. Then Khadka announced that the meeting was postponed till the next notice. Published on November 20th, Tuesday, 2018 2:03 PM 
Kathmandu, November 20 Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Bhanu Bhakta Dhakal says Nepal will deal with the problems surfaced in its post-conflict transitional justice process internally. He says, “This is the problem of the state. The government is working on these issues internally. We will settle them according to the sentiments of the constitution.” Dhakal claims some people tried to use the issues as a means to earn dollars, adding the government will not tolerate it. Addressing a meeting of the conflict victims and their families in Kathmandu on Tuesday, the Minister said the government was committed to healing the wounds of the victims. He assured that perpetrators of serious human rights violation cases would not be spared. The Minister requested the victims and their families to wait for some more days to get justice. “You have already waited for 12 years. But please wait for some days now and your wounds will be treated.” Published on November 20th, Tuesday, 2018 12:51 PM 
Kathmandu, November 19 Minister for Federal Affairs and General Administration Lalbabu Pandit says civil servants of the country have not understood Nepal. He claims many of the staff consider Kathmandu to be the entire Nepal. “Many servants of the country did not understand Nepal. They understood that Nepal was just Kathmandu or what where they were,” Minister Pandit said while inaugurating a new training programme for a group of civil servants in Lalitpur on Monday. According to him, the staff’s reluctance to work at the assigned duty station was a big trouble to the government. He warned that staff disobeying the decision about work places would face stern action. Likewise, Pandit accused the staff of failing to implement their learning from foreign training opportunities though they were passionate about foreign trips. Published on November 19th, Monday, 2018 4:03 PM 
Kathmandu, November 19 Main opposition leader and former prime minister Sher Bahadur Deuba has once again accused incumbent KP Sharma Oli-led government of heading towards authoritarianism. The Nepali Congress President says citizens have not felt comfortable with the ruling of the two thirds majority government though the ruling parties claim it brought stability. Addressing a meeting of the party’s cadres representing various districts of Province 3 at the party headquarters in Sanepa on Monday, he said authoritarianism would destroy democracy, hence all cadres of the party should be united to protect people’s rights. He also stressed that the party should not repeat its past mistakes in encountering efforts of authoritarianism. Published on November 19th, Monday, 2018 3:41 PM 
Kathmandu, November 19 Nepali youth have observed the International Men’s Day on Monday by staging a rally and a corner meeting. The organisers have said it is the first time that the Day was celebrated in Nepal. One of the participants of the rally that began in Jawalakhal was former Chief Justice Kalyan Shrestha. He told other participants after the rally converged into a corner meeting in Mangalbar that all men and women should be able to celebrate all 365 days of the year as their days. Coordinator of Hami Dajubhai, an independent youth group, that hosted the event, Sanjog Thakuri, says the event was organised to express men’s solidarity with women’s rights movement. In particular, they wanted to give messages that all men are not rapists and even men and boys also become victims of sexual violence and other gender stereotypes, according to him. Published on November 19th, Monday, 2018 3:19 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 18 The Armed Police Force has appointed DIG Suraj Shrestha as its spokesperson. Shrestha, who replaces DIG Baburam Pandey, can be reached at 9851 27 2007. Shrestha has been assigned to provide information to the public on the force’s work and activities, said information department’s DSP Ajay Chhatkuli. Published on November 18th, Sunday, 2018 4:28 PM 
Kathmandu, November 18 Former Minister and Nepal Communist Party senior leader Agni Sapkota says the KP Oli government has failed to take radical steps necessary for the country’s development. The Oli government has continued age-old practices and there’s nothing radical about its decisions, said Sapkota speaking at a programme in Kathmandu on Sunday. “KP Sharma Oli is a successful Prime Minister, but the members of his Cabinet do not share a team spirit,” he added. Sapkota complained that the top leaders of the party haven’t been able to meet as Prime Minister Oli is ill and other key figures are on foreign visits. He said that the NCP’s secretariat will soon meet to evaluate work carried out by the government and to finalise a model for the merger of the local units of the then CPN UML and Maoist Centre. Published on November 18th, Sunday, 2018 4:23 PM 
    Kathmandu, November 18 Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa says Nepali officials should be careful while distributing naturalised citizenship as several countries around the world have lost their sovereignty over the issue. Thapa, who was speaking at a meeting of Parliament’s State Affairs Committee, said that his government would investigate cases in which foreigners have obtained Nepali citizenship. He said he was aware that thousands of foreigners have bought citizenship. “There are several issues that impact a country’s sovereignty. If we do not pay adequate attention to the distribution of naturalised citizenship, it will pose a threat to our sovereignty,” said Thapa. He said that the new citizenship law should prevent individuals from obtaining citizenship based on birth. Published on November 18th, Sunday, 2018 4:15 PM 
Kathmandu, November 16 Nepal has stressed that countries of origins should train their citizens who want to go abroad for jobs. Inaugurating the sixth ministerial consultation of Colombo Process, a ground of 12 Asian countries that send migrant workers abroad, Deputy Prime Minister Ishwar Pokharel said the countries of origin should extend cooperation for the capacity building of the workers. He also called on the participating countries to take initiatives ensuring safety of their workers abroad. In another context, Pokharel also demanded that employers or governments of the employing countries cover all the costs involved in the migration process of the workers. On the occasion, Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali hoped that the consultation would prepare a concrete plan on how migrating workers could be protected from potential frauds. As Nepal is the current chair of the group, Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security Gokarna Bista is chairing the meeting. The consultation was preceded by a senior officials’ meeting on Thursday.   Published on November 16th, Friday, 2018 3:11 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 16 The main opposition party, Nepali Congress, has decided to collect suggestions from its leaders and cadres in all seven provinces of the country as it is preparing a political report for the party’s upcoming mahasamiti meeting. The party has called the meeting of the powerful body in mid-December that is expected to amend the party statute and reform the organisation into the new federal model. A meeting of the party’s Political Committee made the decision to collect suggestions from coming Sunday to Thursday. Party President Sher Bahadur Deuba will also attend four of the programmes to be organised for collection the opinions. In particular, the party will collect its leaders’ and cadres’ opinions on federalism, secularism, inclusiveness, the incumbent government’s performance and other political parties. Based on the suggestions, the panel will begin writing the report from next week Friday. Published on November 16th, Friday, 2018 2:57 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 16 The federal government says as many as 55 among 753 local governments in the country are yet to introduce their annual budget plan for the current fiscal year 2018/19 though four months have passed since the beginning of the year. Laws have it that the local units need to table their annual budget at their council meetings by June 24 every year. However, the 55 local units have failed to abide by the law due to lack of coordination with provincial and federal units, according to Baikuntha Aryal, Secretary of National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission. Aryal says the newly formed Commission’s performance has been hindered by the delay in introduction of budget. The Commission is currently holding discussions with federal, provincial and local units to decide how to distribute resources among them. Meanwhile, Aryal urged all the local units to follow the constitutional provisions. Published on November 16th, Friday, 2018 2:48 PM 
Kathmandu, November 16 Some lawmakers have accused Chief Justice Om Prakash Mishra of disrespecting the legislative body as he continued to assign significant cases to Justice Deepak Raj Joshee, whom the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee had rejected for the position of Chief Justice questioning his qualification. Earlier, it was reported that Joshee had agreed to quit in his conversation with Law Minister Bhanu Bhakta Dhakal, but he did not and Mishra assigned cases to him, disrespecting the verdict of the legislative body, the lawmakers claim. “Mishra got a chance to become the Chief Justice because of parliamentary supremacy [because the Hearing Committee rejected Joshee], but it is serious that he is moving against the supremacy,” a Hearing Committee member says, “Through informal channels, we have told him that it disrespected the court.” They are also not satisfied with the Chief Justice as he assigned junior justices to deal with corruption cases. Meanwhile, stakeholders including some senior justices of the apex court have claimed Mishra divides cases among benches under the influence of middlemen, promoting ‘bench shopping’, according to sources at the Supreme Court. Two senior justices approached Mishra to express their dissatisfaction few days back, the source reports. Published on November 16th, Friday, 2018 11:56 AM 
Kathmandu, November 15 The International Cricket Council (ICC) has given the recognition to Everest Premier League (EPL), one of the biggest domestic cricket leagues of Nepal. The announcement comes just three weeks before the third edition of the League. The 2018 edition of the EPL is scheduled to begin on December 8 in Kathmandu. The tournament will conclude on December 22. The organisers sayÂ  the recognition cost Rs 2.75 million. However, the ICC has stated that the revenue will be spent in the development of Nepali cricket, according to EPL Managing Director Amir Akhtar. The ICC has also said that it will disseminate the information about the dissemination to all member states. Published on November 15th, Thursday, 2018 3:32 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 15 The State Affairs and Good Governance Committee in the House of Representatives says it has received total 102 proposals from 55 lawmakers demanding amendments to the bill the government filed to amend the existing Citizenship Act. The Committee’s Chairperson Shashi Shrestha says the Committee will begin discussions on the bill and the amendment proposals from coming Sunday. The Sunday meeting will decide whether to begin clausewise discussions or consult stakeholders first, according to her. Shrestha assures that the Committee will address genuine concerns raised by stakeholders and members of the public during the discussion. She claims the Committee will not restrict the discussion to amendment proposals filed by the lawmakers. “We have to listen to people who do not have their voices in the House because the voices on the street are louder than the voices in the House,” she tells Onlinekhabar, “We cannot overlook the voices on the street. We should not.”   Published on November 15th, Thursday, 2018 3:20 PM 
Kathmandu, November 15 Locals have blocked the vital Kalanki-Kalimati road of Kathmandu demanding that the government immediately blacktop the section so as to control dust pollution. The asphalt on the road was removed during recent expansion works. Protesting locals have blocked roads with utility poles and dividers. Consequently, vehicles have not plied there since 9:30 am today. Locals have claimed the leadership of Kathmandu Metropolitan City had repeatedly expressed its commitment to controlling dust and smoke at the earliest. They add that they were forced to obstruct the movement after the local government failed to keep its promise. Meanwhile, KMC Ward 14 Chairperson Shobha Sapkota says she has been making efforts to meet the demand at the earliest. She adds that she is also talking with locals to open the road soon. Published on November 15th, Thursday, 2018 11:57 AM 
Banke, November 15 Flights to and from Ranjha Airport in Nepalgunj of Banke district could not take place on Thursday morning due to poor visibility caused by thick fogs in the region. All flights to and from Nepalgunj scheduled for this morning could not happen, said Rabina Pandey, Chief of Field Office of Department of Hydrology and Meteorology. Pandey shared that the visibility in Banke district this morning remained only upto 50 metres. The visibility for small aircraft should be from 1,600 metres to 2,000 metres while the visibility for large-scale planes is expected to be above 2,000 metres. Despite the improvement in weather, the entire sky is not clear so far and such a situation is likely to continue for some more days, Pandey said. In the morning hours, planes leave for Dolpa, Humla, Mugu and Kathmandu from Ranjha Airport. RSS Published on November 15th, Thursday, 2018 11:36 AM 
Kathmandu, November 15 The sixth ministerial consultation of Colombo Process, a group of 12 Asian countries that send workers for overseas employment, has begun in Kathmandu on Thursday. Nepal is the current chair of the group. Nepal’s Labour Secretary Mahesh Dahal is chairing the senior officials’ meeting today. The ministerial consultation will begin on Friday officially. Spokesperson at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security, Narayan Regmi, says Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli will inaugurate the meeting tomorrow. Labour and Employment Minister Gokarna Bista will chair the meeting. Labour and employment ministers or their representatives of other 11 member states–Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam–will attend the event. The Colombo Process was established in 2003 in response to calls from several Asian labour sending countries who increasingly recognised the need for optimising the benefits of organised labour migration whilst protecting their migrants from exploitative practices in recruitment and employment. Published on November 15th, Thursday, 2018 11:16 AM 
Kathmandu, November 14 The Swoyambhu Management and Protection General Committee has completed the renovation of 19 heritage momuments in the Swayambhu area of Kathmandu.
A chaitya, Bayupur and Basupur situating in front of the Shanti Pokhari, a pillar in front of the Swayambhu Chaitya and the roof of the Basundhara Temple were renovated. As stated by committee, the restoration works were carried out with the help of several donor agencies and internal resources were also mobilised. Monuments like Anantapur and Pratappur were refurbished with the help of the Department of Archaeology while the UNESCO supported in the repairing of the Bahumangaldwar Chaitya. The committee has so far spent around Rs 50 million for the renovation. Most of the monuments in this UNESCO world heritage site were damaged by the 2015 April earthquake and subsequent aftershocks. Earlier, the committee had got permission from the Department to restore the damaged structures to their original shapes. The renovation works at the ancient Shantipur Temple here had begun two years ago at the cost of Rs 40 million. A total of 14 districts including three districts in the Kathmandu Valley have been considered the most-affected districts by the 2015 Gorkha quake. According to the Department, the quake had inflicted damages in 753 heritage monuments which also include the historic Dharahara (Bhimsen tower), Ranipokhari and Kashthamandap. RSS   Published on November 14th, Wednesday, 2018 2:41 PM 
Kathmandu, November 14 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says the country needs greater support from its immediate neighbours as it is heading towards prosperity. Receiving visiting Chinese Minister of Culture Luo Shugang at his official residence in Baluwatar of Kathmandu today, the Prime Minister said, “We have expected support from our friends to achieve the goal of prosperity. We need additional support from close neighbours.” Prime Minister Oli’s foreign affairs advisor Rajan Bhattarai told media after the meeting that the Prime Minister also remembered various dimensions of the ties that Nepal and China share for centuries. During the meeting, the Chinese Minister said his government would send as many tourists as possible to Nepal to make the country’s Visit Nepal 2020 a success. He also informed the PM that the number of Chinese tourists in Nepal increased by 48 per cent this year. Luo had met his Nepali counterpart Rabindra Adhikari yesterday. Published on November 14th, Wednesday, 2018 2:29 PM 
Chitwan, November 14 Students of the Agriculture and Forestry University have vandalised the university’s central office in Chitwan district, on Tuesday evening. They also set parts of the building ablaze. Police and the university’s security personnel contained the fire later. Some student groups are protesting the university’s decision of granting affiliation to some private colleges. Police say the attack resulted in the loss of property worth millions of rupees. This is the second time that the university faced the arson attack in past two years. Meanwhile, police arrested 10 students in connection with the attack. Two of them, however, were released later. Published on November 14th, Wednesday, 2018 2:11 PM 
 Humla, November 13 Chief Minister of Karnali Province, Mahendra Bahadur Shahi, arrived in Simikot of Humla on Tuesday along with a Chinese team for the feasibility study of road and railway connecting India and China via Nepal. According to the District Administration Office, the team comprising Chief Minister Shahi and Chinese technicians arrived here to carry out the feasibility study of road and railway from Taklakot of Tibet to Jamunah of Nepalgunj, bordering with India. The Chinese government has taken the route as the main international highway linking two countries from north to south as it is the shortest route linking the north and south transit points of the country. Few months back, Chief Minister Shahi had visited China at the invitation of the Chinese government, during which he had held discussions with the Chinese officials, mainly on promoting cooperation in road construction and hydroelectricity sectors. RSS Published on November 13th, Tuesday, 2018 4:25 PM 
Kathmandu, November 13 After weeks of investigation into the report filed by ruling Nepal Communist Party’s lawmaker Niru Devi Pal that two unidentified persons threatened to kill her in the first week of August, police have concluded that the incident she described did not occur in reality. However, police have not said anything about the incident officially though it had earlier informed that it began the probe. Metropolitan Police Range in Kathmandu had formed a three-member team under the leadership of SP Ram Datta Joshi to look into the case. The team had concluded that though Pal met two unidentified people while she was on her way to a local grocery, they did not issue any threat to her. However, Joshi could not submit the report before he was transferred to the Secretariat of Inspector General. His predecessor did not take care of the incident. Now, officials of the Range say the issue was over now. Published on November 13th, Tuesday, 2018 3:47 PM 
Chitwan, November 13 Nepali Congress senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel has criticisedÂ  his party president Sher Bahadur Deuba, claiming the former prime minister failed to play the role of an efficient main opposition leader in the federal Parliament. Speaking with journalists in Chitwan today, Paudel said, “The president should have presented himself with aggressive thoughts, but he could not.” On the occasion, Paudel also claimed that he was more concerned about the party rather than his position. “I am worried why we lost the elections and how we can revive the party,” he said, “I don’t care who will hold what position.” In another context, he said the lunch meeting held at the residence of leader Sujata Koirala in Kathmandu on Monday was just an informal gathering and it was not aimed at promoting factionalism in the party. He maintained that he did not have any objection to Bijaya Kumar Gachhadar’s appointment as the party vice-president except that the process did not follow the party statute. RSS Published on November 13th, Tuesday, 2018 3:29 PM 
Kathmandu, November 13 Sudurpashchim Chief Minister Trilochan Bhatta has removed his Social Development Minister Dirgha Sodari after the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s directive. NCP’s Sudurpashchim in-charge Bhim Rawal had directed the Chief Minister to sack Sodari, citing the Minister failed to keep his conducts maintaining the dignity of his position. The party’s Provincial Committee Chairman Karna Bahadur Thapa says Sodari was removed after he did not follow the party directives for improvement time and again. During the Tihar vacation recently, he had lent his vehicle to someone else, and it had hit pedestrians in Kailali. Sodari is considered close to Ghanashyam Bhusal and Yogesh Bhattarai in the party’s internal politics. He is the second to get sacked from provincial councils of ministers. Around two weeks ago, Province 3 Chief Minister Dor Mani Poudel had removed Keshav Sthapit from his Council of Ministers. Published on November 13th, Tuesday, 2018 2:32 PM 
Kavre, November 12 Minister for Communications and Information Technology Gokul Prasad Banskota has expressed sadness over the ongoing trend of forced religious conversion in the country. “Nepal has a diversity of religion and culture and the political aim is to provide justice, equality, create harmony and safeguard lives of the people and all animals,” he said while speaking at the Religion Awakening Festival organised here on Monday by Shree Krishna Pranami Sewa Samiti. He also pointed out that safeguarding the planet and people’s lives were main challenges of the day. “Life cycle of living animals is dependent on the planet. So it is the responsibility of all to safeguard the planet and the people,” he said. Minister Banskota also urged all to take part in this initiative. RSS Published on November 12th, Monday, 2018 3:45 PM 
Kathmandu, November 12 Whereas the Federal Parliament has failed to move forward the National Medical Education Bill that the government had registered some months ago, owing to multiple disputes, some lawmakers of the ruling Nepal Communist Party have demanded that the state take the control of all private medical colleges within next few years. Anjana Bishankhe, Parvati Kumari Bishankhe and Amrita Thapa have demanded that the state acquire all health education institutions within next five years so that the commercialisation of medical education would end. Amendment proposals registered by Nepali Congress lawmaker Gagan Thapa and Nepal Workers and Peasants Party’s Prem Suwal have also put forth similar demands. NCP leader Khaga Raj Adhikari, who heads a subcommittee under the Health and Education Committee in the House of Representatives, says the state is capable of taking over if it really wishes so. The Committee is scheduled to begin clausewise discussions over the bill from next week.   Published on November 12th, Monday, 2018 3:12 PM 
 Lahan, November 12 Two cases of gang rape have been reported in Siraha, a district in Province 2. A teenage girl and another 20-year-old woman were raped by a same group on the night of Bhaitika last Friday, according to police. The two of Laxmipur Patari Rural Municipality-2 were allegedly assaulted by a group of seven individuals in Lahan Municipality-22. Lahan’sÂ Area Police Office stated that the two were sent for a medical checkup at the local Ram Kumar Uma Prasad Hospital before being handed to their families. Deputy Superintendent of Police Rajesh Thapa said all the accused were absconding and police consequently launched a manhunt for them. Among the accused, names of three have been ascertained and remaining four remain unidentified. According to the victims, one Hari Chaudhary of Lahan invited them to his home, citing that he had his birthday party and they were raped once they reached his home. RSS Published on November 12th, Monday, 2018 12:29 PM 
 Gulariya, November 12 An 11-year-old girl in Badhaiyatal-8 of Bardiya district in western Nepal has been reportedly raped by two Indian nationals. Local police say they have arrested both of the suspects within one hour after the crime. Their identity has not been revealed. “They are 16 and 17 years old, and both have confessed to the crime,”Â SP Mohan Prasad Mainali informs, “We have launched the process to take legal action against them.” Mainali says the victim was grazing her cattle in a nearby area when the incident occurred. Meanwhile, the victim underwent a health checkup and she is not at risk, according to police. Published on November 12th, Monday, 2018 11:39 AM 
Kathmandu, November 12 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has appointed Rajan Bhattarai as his foreign affairs advisor. Bhattarai was a member of the Constituent Assembly that drafted the 2015 constitution. He had contested the 2017 parliamentary elections for a House of Representatives seat representing Kathmandu-4, but was defeated by Gagan Thapa of Nepali Congress. He was also a member of the Eminent Persons’ Group on Nepal-India Relations. The Nepal Communist Party leader had also worked as a foreign affairs advisor to then prime minister Madhav Kumar Nepal. A Cabinet meeting held on Sunday evening made the decision, according to sources close to the Prime Minister. Published on November 12th, Monday, 2018 10:13 AM 
Kanchanpur, November 11 Parents of Nirmala Pant, a 13-year-old girl who was raped and murdered around four months ago in Kanchanpur of farwestern Nepal, have begun an indefinite demonstration in the district headquarters on Sunday. The couple accompanied by local activities will stage the sit-in in front of the District Administration Office in Mahendranagar today. The Citizen Struggle Committee, which is hosting the demonstration, says the sit-in will continue till the guilty is booked and made public. They had also staged a rally before beginning the sit-in. Meanwhile, the Pant family says the couple will stage an indefinite hunger strike in the second phase if their demand was not met after the indefinite sit-in.   Published on November 11th, Sunday, 2018 2:25 PM 
Kathmandu, November 11 Upon the failure to forge a consensus among its provincial lawmakers on the name and capital of Province 3, the Nepal Communist Party, which holds the two thirds majority in the provincial legislative, has requested the party’s central leadership to intervene. The party’s two chairpersons–KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal–have been requested to hold a discussion and make an appropriate decision. It has been learned that Oli is in favour of naming the province Bagmati and fixing the capital in Kavre or Bhaktapur. Dahal, however, wants to retain Hetaunda or establish his home constituency Chitwan as the capital. Earlier, a parliamentary committee had suggested five districts including Kavre, Bhaktapur, Chitwan, Makawanpur (where Hetaunda lies) and Nuwakot for the capital. A source in the party informs that most lawmakers agree on Oli’s proposal for naming the province Bagmati and keeping the capital in Kavre. They are against the proposal for keeping the capital in Hetaunda. The capital debate is now restricted to Kavre vs Hetaunda. The differences over the name seem trickier as there are multiple suggestions. Those affiliated with the former Maoist Centre want the province to be named Newa Tamsaling. Nepalmandal and Gauri Shankar are two other recommendations.   Published on November 11th, Sunday, 2018 12:55 PM 
Kathmandu, November 11 A direct tourist bus service connecting Kathmandu and Janakpur has been brought into operation from Sunday. The first of its kind service was operated by Deepjyoti Tours and Travel Pvt. Ltd. The bus would reach Janakpaur via Kavre, Sindhuli and Bardibas. The direct tourist bus service is expected to connect the country’s key religious site and Province 2 with the tourism business, entrepreneurship and the international visitors as well. Under the service, a bus would leave Kathmandu for Janakpur at 7:00 am every day. The entrepreneurs have hoped that such moves of connectivity would help materialise the government’s target to bring in two million tourists annually by 2020. Prior to this, the tourist bus services from Kathmandu to Pokhara, Sauraha and Lumbini only were available everyday. RSS Published on November 11th, Sunday, 2018 12:30 PM 
Kathmandu, November 8 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said that Sankhadhar Sakhwa, the founder of Nepal Sambat, was the campaigner of justice and equality. In the message today, Prime Minister Oli wished for happiness, peace, prosperity and progress to all Nepalis living in and outside the country on the occasion of New Year of Nepal Sambat 1139. Stating that Nepal Sambat was Nepal’s indigenous calendar and its progenitor Sakhwa had laid a notable foundation of social change in the contemporary society by absolving people of their debt,” he said that Sakhwa’s contribution was still relevant in Nepali society. “I want to specially remember the national hero, founder of Nepal Sambat, and progressive personality, Sakhwa, who devoted himself for the development of Kathmandu Valley,” reads the message. RSS Published on November 8th, Thursday, 2018 12:11 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 8 The country’s single fuel distribution authority, Nepal Oil Corporation, on Thursday says consumers need not worry about shortage of fuel during the ongoing Tihar festival throughout the country. The Corporation’s Acting Managing Director Sushil Bhattarai says the Corporation has already distributed sufficient fuel for next two days. Depots of the Corporation will, however, close on Thursday and Friday. “We have distributed more than average fuel from our depots in Thankot and Amalekhganj. But, the demand has decreased due to the festival,” he says, “Therefore, there will not be any problem.” According to the official, the Corporation has stocked 10 million litre petroleum product as of now. Fuel stations across the country have been told not to hoard the storage and sell as much fuel as the consumers demand, Bhattarai adds. Published on November 8th, Thursday, 2018 12:01 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 8 Property worth Rs 1.1 million was reduced to ashes when a residential house caught fire in Lokanthali, Madhyapur Thimi Municipality-1 of Bhaktapur district on Wednesday night. Police say a short circuit from the lights illuminated to celebrate Laxmipuja festival sparked the fire at the house of Bishnu Narsingha Hyaju. The fire had begun from the room rented by Binod Dhungel. Chief of the Metropolitan Police Sector in Sano Thimi, Ramesh Rai, says the short circuit occurred after Dhungel left his room with all the lights switched on. The fire gutted 10 tola gold ornaments, Rs 500,000 cash, two laptops, one desktop, one wooden cupboard and clothes, according to Rai. Firefighters, police and locals contained the fire in next one and half hours. Published on November 8th, Thursday, 2018 10:50 AM 
Kathmandu, November 7 Police in Kathmandu have destroyed firecrackers worth Rs 1 million. Though firecrackers are illegal to import, produce and use in Nepal, traders sell them before and during Tihar festival. The Metropolitan Police Range in the district says its personnel collected the firecrackers from various parts of the district and destroyed them at its Teku-based office premises on Wednesday morning. Police had invited journalists and locals as well to witness the act. An investigation found that the goods were imported around three months ago. Meanwhile, police arrested nine persons found involved in the trade of firecrackers. Chief at the Metropolitan Police Range SSP Basanta Kumar Lama says police are committed to making Kathmandu completely firecracker-free. He warns of stern action against anyone found involved in the illegal activity. Published on November 7th, Wednesday, 2018 1:57 PM 
Kathmandu, November 7 Nepali Congress leader Sujata Koirala has suggested her party’s President Sher Bahadur Deuba improve the leadership style and ace his performance immediately now as he may not get another chance to lead the party. She accuses that Deuba of failing to free himself from a narrow faction till today. “The President should not look like the president of one faction. He should be the president of entire party,” the leader said while participating in a Deusi Bhailo programme organised by Reporter’s Club Nepal in the capital on Wednesday. Koirala expressed her anger against the former prime minister citing he did not consult her and other leaders of the party about appointing Bijaya Kumar Gachhadar as his deputy. “It would have been better if he had consulted us,” she questioned, “Dear President, why do you get frightened to take our counsel?” Published on November 7th, Wednesday, 2018 12:55 PM 
Pokhara, November 7 Nepal Communist Party chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal says Nepal’s political leadership and all governments fail to achieve success because of the bureaucracy. He claims Nepal’s bureaucracy has failed to change itself in line with political changes, hence the administrators gradually make political leaders similar to them, hindering from achieving the targets. Speaking with journalists in Pokhara on Wednesday morning, Dahal said, “In other countries, the bureaucratic leadership is removed after some significant political change so that the staff internalising new system can be recruited. But, in Nepal, the opposition happens–the bureaucracy influences the political leadership and makes the new system a failure.” In another context, Dahal said provincial governments did not have any alternative to achieving success, stating, “If the province fails, the changes that came with republicanism, federalism and secularism fail.” “We have to make provincial governments effective. Otherwise, the country will be pushed into darkness.” Published on November 7th, Wednesday, 2018 12:31 PM 
Kathmandu, November 7 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba has appointed Bijaya Kumar Gachhadar the party’s Vice-President amid protests from the camp led by his internal opponent Ram Chandra Paudel. The party’sÂ  Central Working Committee meeting held on Tuesday afternoon appointed Gachhadar to the position. A former Congress leader, Gachhadar was active in regional politics until last year. Then the Chairperson of Nepal Democratic Forum, Gachhadar had merged the party with the Nepali Congress before parliamentary elections held last year. During the merger, Deuba had assured the vice-presidential position to Gachhadar. Whereas leaders close to the former prime minister have said the CWC decision aimed at implementing the merger agreement, Paudel side claims the decision flouted the party statute. The faction argues that the party should have suspended some provisions of the statute to appoint Gachhadar as the statute has the provision for only one Vice-President, appointed from among elected CWC members. Bimalendra Nidhi already holds the position. CWC member Arjun Narsingha KC says the leaders, however, have congratulated Gachhadar on the appointment. Meanwhile, the meeting also postponed the party’s mahasamiti meeting till December 14. The meeting will be held in Kathmandu from December 14 to 18. Published on November 7th, Wednesday, 2018 9:53 AM 
  Thini, November 6 Inspector General of Police Sarbendra Khanal said any activities that jeopardise the professional integrity of the police force is not tolerable.
Inaugurating the District Police Office building at Jomsom on Monday, IGP Khanal directed his subordinates to perform in an honest manner.
“We should work in collaboration with community by winning hearts of the people being conscious of honesty and professional integrity”, he said.
On the occasion, District Coordination Committee Coordinator Tshering Lyamo Gurung demanded for the setup of a separate office of the traffic police in the district.
Deputy Superintendent of Police Mahendra Khadka the building constructed at a cost of Rs 25.4 million has 22 rooms. RSS Published on November 6th, Tuesday, 2018 4:26 PM 
Kathmandu, November 6 All programmes scheduled for the Nepal Sambat New Year 1139 have been cancelled to mourn the demise of a pioneer of the Nepal Sambat movement, organisers have said. The programmes will be rescheduled to a later date after the 13th day of the demise of Padma Ratna Tuladhar, who was also a leader of the indigenous nationalities and the human rights movements, a meeting of Nepal Sambat Nhudah National Celebration Committee on Tuesday decided. A celebration was planned in Kathmandu on November 8 this year to commemorate on the Nepal Sambat 1139 New Year. All programmes that were to take place around the city have also been cancelled. Coordinator of Newa Jagaran Manch, Sujib Bajracharya, said that the meeting has decided to organise all the programmes at a suitable time. RSS Published on November 6th, Tuesday, 2018 4:17 PM 
Kathmandu, November 6 Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada says the incumbent government is unlikely to achieve the economic growth target of eight per cent it has set for the current fiscal year, citing it is ‘difficult to achieve’. Launching the online transaction of Nepal Stock Exchange in Kathmandu on Tuesday, Khatiwada said the government would be restricted to the achievement of six to eight per cent this year. “Our estimation is eight per cent,” the Minister said, “But, those who are independently assessing our economy says the growth rate would be just above six per cent. It means, we will get settled between six and eight per cent.” Khatiwada said the banking sector was earning satisfactory profit and it would leave positive impacts on the national economy. Published on November 6th, Tuesday, 2018 3:16 PM 
 Kathmandu, November 6 Pokhara Paltan have won the first edition of Pokhara Premier League, defeating Chitwan Rhinos by 3 wickets on Tuesday. Batting first, the Rhinos suffered an early blow when Hari Shankar Shah was stumped in the second over. But their captain Paras Khadkha (51) and opener Anil Kumal Sah (37) helped the team put up a respectable score of 161 for 5. Pick of the bowlers for the Rhinos were spinner Lalit Rajbanshi and pacer Mohammad Naveed who both took a wicket each at an economy rate of 4.5 in their allotted four overs. Batting second, the Rhinos suffered regular blows; but Ravi Inder Singh, Mohammad Naveed and captain Sharad Vesawkar steadied the ship. They helped the Paltan beat the Rhinos by three wickets. Singh who scored 90 runs from 58 balls was declared man of the match for his match winning innings and Sunny Patel from the Rhinos was declared man of the series. Winners Paltan will receive a cash prize of Rs. 2.7 million along with a trophy whereas runner up Rhinos will receive a cash prize of Rs 1 million. Published on November 6th, Tuesday, 2018 3:04 PM 
Hetauda, November 6 Around 50 per cent of the work related to the laying of a petroleum pipeline joining India’s Raxaul with Nepal’s Amlekjgunj has been completed. Of the 37.35km pipeline, around 19 km section has been completed so far. Project chief Bhanubhakta Khanal said that the NOC has already been granted permission by the Forest Ministry to fell trees on the pipeline route. Nepal Timber Corporation will cut such trees and the NOC will compensate the ministry for the loss. A total of 5,888 trees inside the Parsa National Park need to be chopped to clear the way for the pipeline. Around a 10 km section of the pipelines needs to be laid inside the forest area belonging to the park. The Indian government has invested Rs 3.2 billion and the Nepal Rs 1.2 billion in the project, which was launched in April. RSS Published on November 6th, Tuesday, 2018 1:10 PM 
Kathmandu, November 5 Kathmandu District Administration Office and Metropolitan Police Range in the district have made a decision to restrict citizens from playing Deusi-Bhailo during this year’s Tihar festival after 10 pm every night. Chief District Officer Ram Prasad Acharya says individuals and groups continuing the cultural activities after the time will be booked. The local administration has decided to impose a restriction on the singing and dancing during nighttime suspecting the festival can be taken as an excuse to carry out criminal activities as well. “We have requested the citizens to play Deusi-Bhailo by maintaining the festival’s value,” Acharya says, “We will not accept activities that criminalise the festival and that promote hooliganism.” Though the administration has been fixing the time limit for Deusi-Bhailo every Tihar, the order is largely ineffective. Published on November 5th, Monday, 2018 2:57 PM 
Mustang, November 5 Nepal Police Chief Sarbendra Khanal says the national police organisation will get tough with hooligans and gangsters. Speaking at a function organised to inaugurate the new office building of Mustang District Police Office in Jomsom on Monday, Khanal said police would take severe actions against any wrong happening in society. The Inspector General also claimed that Nepal Police would not tolerate even if its own personnel were involved in criminal activities and corruption. “This organisation is for people who want to do something good. Those failing to do so would not be spared. Meanwhile, Khanal said the police organisation was committed to increasing partnership with local communities to give a momentum to development activities at the local level. The police-public partnership would also be effective in combating crimes and maintaining security, according to him. Published on November 5th, Monday, 2018 2:44 PM 
Kathmandu, November 5 Nepal Communist Party Chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal says whether Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Nepal next month should not be regarded as a big news. Dahal’s statement comes amid rumours that Modi’s scheduled visit to Janakpurdham on the occasion of Bibaha Panchami has turned uncertain due to different reasons. Speaking with journalists at the Biratnagar Airport today, Dahal said, “I don’t know the details, but Modi has come to Nepal much frequently. Therefore, whether he comes to Nepal or not does not make any big news now.” The second ranked leader of the ruling party, however, maintained that he was hopeful about the visit. In another context, he said the Prime Minister was not going to change his ministers anytime soon. Dahal was in Biratnagar to attend a tea reception organised by the party. Published on November 5th, Monday, 2018 2:31 PM 
Kathmandu, November 4 Total 18 local governments in three districts of Kathmandu Valley have formed a consortium with a mission to develop advanced cities and towns in the area. Kathmandu Metropolitan City’s Mayor Bidya Sundar Shakya leads the Valley Municipal  Forum. Beginning its work, the Forum has recently brought mayors of the cities together to issue an eight point commitment on conservation of natural environment while accelerating development works. Shakya says the forum will help the municipal governments execute their proposed plans in a coordinated fashion. He is also hopeful that it will be instrumental in introducing a monorail system in the Valley. “We have also moved forward to handle waste management jointly. We will share costs of these projects if necessary,” he says. Published on November 4th, Sunday, 2018 2:11 PM 
Kathmandu, November 4 Police in Kathmandu say they have arrested Maya Sherchan in connection with the murder of construction entrepreneur Sharad Kumar Gauchan in October last year. Sherchan is the wife of gangster Samir Man Singh Basnyat, who in already in police custody in connection with the same case. Police have claimed Basnyat is the mastermind behind the daylight murder. Sherchan was arrested from Thulo Bharyang, Swayambhu of Kathmandu, according to an official of the Metropolitan Crime Division. Police say some recently arrested suspects had revealed Sherchan’s involvement in the murder. Three of the suspects said they received arms used in various criminal cases from Sherchan. Gauchan was murdered in Naya Baneshwor of Kathmandu on October 9 last year. Responding to demands of the family and construction fraternity, the government has already decided to declare him a martyr. Published on November 4th, Sunday, 2018 1:51 PM 
 Parsa, November 4 The revenue collected by the Birgunj Customs Office in the first three months of the current fiscal year exceeded the target. The Office collected over Rs 43.19 billion in revenue in this period against the target of Rs 37.75 billion. As told by Office Chief Gopal Khatri, the collection is 13 percent more than the target and 42 percent more than the revenue raised in the corresponding period last fiscal year. The increment in revenue collection is due to the growth in trade activities taking place via the country’s major customs point, according to the officials.   Published on November 4th, Sunday, 2018 12:51 PM 
Biratnagar, November 4 Nepali Congress leader Shekhar Koirala says the incumbent government has already lost its moral high ground to continue ruling as it failed to protect life and property of its citizens. Koirala accused the KP Sharma Oli-led government of trying to weaken democratic institutions and impose totalitarianism in the country. Addressing a function organised in Biratnagar of Morang district on Sunday morning, Koirala said, “The government is currently trying to make judiciary, economic systems, army and media weaker.” The leader claimed the government’s decision to keep money laundering investigation unit among other government bodies under the Prime Minister promoted corruption in the country. “The judiciary is helpless. Media is facing interference. Now, the government’s target is army,” Koirala said, adding people’s trust in the judicial system was also decreasing accordingly. In another context, Koirala claimed the state was trying to spare the murderer of a Nepali Congress cadre who died during a clash in Sarlahi last week. Published on November 4th, Sunday, 2018 10:46 AM 
Kathmandu, November 2 The Manmohan Cardiothoracic Vascular and Transplant Centre in Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital on Friday evening discharged Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. Oli was admitted to the Maharajgunj-based health facility in the wee hours of Monday after he reported cold and cough among others. Examinations had found that he was suffering from chest infection and imbalanced sugar level among others. After the medical attention of over 100 hours, the hospital on Friday morning had reported that Oli was back to full fitness. Prime Minister Oli’s secretariat says Oli is currently at his official residence in Baluwatar and is healthy enough to carry out daily jobs. Published on November 2nd, Friday, 2018 7:56 PM 
Kathmandu, November 2 Leaders of ruling Nepal Communist Party and main opposition Nepali Congress have stressed that both the forces should come together in solving major problems of the nation. The leaders, who more often than not blame each other for the problems, today stated that their togetherness would be the best solution to the critical issues. As the main opposition party hosted a tea reception on the occasion of major festivals including Dashain and Tihar, the opposition leaders visited the venue to exchange festive greetings. Speaking on the occaion, NCP Chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal said, “No one should retain narrow mindedness. We completed the peace process in partnership with the Nepali Congress. Now, we should be together for economic prosperity.” He was of the view that the parties should stay together on major national issues so as to institutionalise changes brought by political revolutions. On behalf of the host, the opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba said, “The country needs reconciliation today. We should move ahead together.” Published on November 2nd, Friday, 2018 7:45 PM 
Kathmandu, November 2 Chairperson of Nepal Communist Party  Pushpa Kamal Dahal on Friday called on Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who has been admitted to the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital following a chest infection. On the occasion, Dahal took stock of the Prime Minister’s health, said Dahal’s Press Advisor Bishnu Sapkota. They also held a brief discussion regarding contemporary issues. According to the hospital, Prime Minister Oli is back to full fitness and his condition is stable.
NCP General Secretary Bishnu Poudel, Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil aviation Rabindra Adhikari and Chief Minister of Province 3, Dormani Poudel, among others also visited TUTH to inquire about the PM’s health. Published on November 2nd, Friday, 2018 1:32 PM 
Kathmandu, November 2 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who has been admitted to the Manmohan Cardiothoracic Vascular and Transplant Centre following the chest infection, is back to full fitness, hospital authorities said. Oli was admitted to the centre at Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital on Monday following a chest infection, fever and cough. Medical reports this morning showed the PM’s health condition is normal. In a press note issued at 10:00 on Friday morning, Executive Director of Centre Prof Dr Uttam Krishna Shrestha stated that the PM’s health condition is normal. “The PM’s health condition has come to the previous condition. But, a decision has not been taken so far whether to discharge him today or on Saturday,” Shrestha added. Published on November 2nd, Friday, 2018 1:19 PM 
Kathmandu, November 2 Timber Corporation of Nepal Ltd has agreed to provide 17,000 cubic feet of timber for reconstruction of Kasthamandap, a historic travellers’ rest damaged reduced to rubble by the 2015 Earthquake. Kasthamandap Reconstruction Committee chair Rajesh Shakya and corporation’s general manager Raju Laudari signed a memorandum of understanding that is expected to expedited reconstruction work, The reconstruction of Kasthamandap (wood pavilion) needs specially-prepared timber. Generally, timber measuring 10 feet is available in theÂ market, but the monument requires 38-feet-long timber. The committee is working with a target of completing reconstruction of the heritage of historic and cultural importance within the next two years. The monument is believed to be built by Laxmi Narsingh Malla, in the 12th century. RSS Published on November 2nd, Friday, 2018 12:22 PM 
Nawalpur, November 1 A greater one-horned Rhino believed to be a resident of Chitwan National Park in Nawalpur on Wednesday night, officials said. The carcass was found in Madyabindu Municipality-2 at around 7 pm, said local police. The rhino is believed to have died following a brawl with an individual from the same species. According to witnesses, the brawl took place near Kasghari, Bhutaha. The carcass has been taken to an army barrack in Kolhuwa, where an autopsy is to be performed. The latest death comes at a time when natural/unexplained deaths have alarmed officials. Between 2004 and 2014, a total of 81 rhinos died from unknown or natural causes — an average of around seven per year. That number has since shot up: From 2015 to 2017, 60 such deaths were recorded, an average of 20 per year. Seven rhinos have already died in Chitwan National Park (CNP) due to natural causes in the first three months of the current fiscal. Published on November 1st, Thursday, 2018 1:59 PM 
Kathmandu, November 1 The ‘umbrella organisation’ of recruitment agencies involved in facilitating the migration of Nepali workers abroad has challenged the government to effectively implementing a recent agreement it signed with Malaysia earlier this week. President of Nepal Association of Foreign Employment Agencies, Rohan Gurung, claims the government cannot implement this pact even for first three months because of the provision that employer companies have to cover all costs of the recruitment process. “Don’t wait much, but just three months. Time will prove how right we were. The government hopefully will learn a lesson then,” he says. Gurung views that Labour Minister Gokarna Bista pushed the government for the agreement for the sake of popularity. “Let’s see how the government will stop the agencies from charging a single rupee on the workers. Then, you will know how practical this decision is,” he says, “If this decision is not made just for popularity, let the government implement it.” Published on November 1st, Thursday, 2018 12:43 PM 
Kathmandu, November 1 The hospital where Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has been admitted to says it is preparing to discharge the leader as his health reports are satisfactory as of Thursday morning. The Manmohan Cardiothoracic Vascular and Transplant Centre under the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital says reports collected this morning are normal, his health condition is satisfying and he will recover to normalcy soon. A three member team comprising cardiologist Dr Arun Sayami, and general physicians Dr Divya Singh Shah and Dr Santa Kumar Das is looking after the PM. The Prime Minister was taken to the hospital in the wee hours of Monday. The doctors had said he had chest infection and imbalanced sugar level. Published on November 1st, Thursday, 2018 12:13 PM 
 Dhangadhi, October 31 Residents of Dhangadhi have demanded justice for Nirmala Pant, the teenage girl who was raped and murdered in Bhimdutta Nagar few months ago. A group formed to press authorities to investigate the case and find the culprit has threatened to launch stringent protests after the Chhath festival if the perpetrators are not brought to book at the earliest. Representatives of the group have also handed over a petition to Chief Minister Trilochan Bhatta demanding justice for the teenager. The parents of Nirmala Pant also participated in the demonstrations. Published on October 31st, Wednesday, 2018 3:43 PM 
Kathmandu, October 31 Dissident leaders from all three factions of the former Rastriya Prajatantra Pary are to meet after the Tihar break to chart out a course for themselves. The leaders are expected to either decide to form a new party or to merge all three parties to form a new force. According to sources, disenchanted leaders from the Kamal Thapa-led RPP, Pashupati Sumsher Rana-lef RPP Democratic and Prakash Chandra Lohani-led RPP Rastrabadi are going to meet in the capital. RPP central committee member Arjun Rai is learnt to have expedited neogtiations with other leaders. “The discussions we have had so far is not directed against any leader. Our objective is to form an alternative nationalist force.” Published on October 31st, Wednesday, 2018 3:10 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 31 The 456 MW Upper Tamakoshi Hydel, which is already three years behind its completion deadline, will take at least a year for it to start producing power, officials said. The delay has been attributed to slow-paced hydromechanical work at the plant. Under a revised target set after the 2015 earthquake, the first unit of the project had to start producing electricity by December 2017 and the six other units by May 2018. “We can only start commercial power production in October next year,” said Tamakoshi Hydropower Company’s Chief Executive Bigyan Adhikari. The project was intially expected to be compled in August 2015, but work was hampered due to the earthquake and the Indian blockade. The project, which is entirely funded by domestic resource, has mobilised investment from the Provident Fund, Nepal Telecom, National Insurance Corporation, and Citizen Investment Trust. As per the law, residents of areas affected by the project also have a stake in the multi-billion rupee project. Published on October 31st, Wednesday, 2018 3:01 PM 
President Bidya Devi Bhandari, who is on a four-day official visit of Qatar, and the host country’s Amir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani held an official meeting in Doha on Tuesday. During the meeting, matters related to the strengthening of bilateral diplomatic relations and mutual cooperation were discussed, state-owned news agency, RSS reported.   The Amir also hosted a luncheon in honour of President Bhandari. Meanwhile, Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali and his Qatari counterpart Sheikh Mohmmad Abdul Rahman Al Thani signed an agreement to allow visa-free travel for holders of special passports. Similarly, an agreement has also been sighned on cooperation in the area of food security and agriculture. Published on October 30th, Tuesday, 2018 5:53 PM 
Kathmandu, October 30 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says he is assured he will be discharged from hospital soon. Oli, who was rushed to the Manmohan Cardio-thoracic Vascular and Transplant Centre on Monday morning, said in a statement that rumours about his health on social media were regrettable. The Prime Minsiter said that he was in hospital to prevent a possible infection. “I am aware of the sensational reports in the digital media about my health,” the Prime Minister said. “I would like to request every one to not be affected by such rumours.” The PM said that he was fully aware of ‘unexpected’ events in different parts of the country. He said that any activity that incites violence in the name of religion or party politics was unacceptable. He also said that anyone involved in tampering with evidence related to crime should also be punished. Published on October 30th, Tuesday, 2018 5:33 PM 
    Kathmandu, October 30 Doctors involved in the treatment of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who was hospitalised on Monday, have said they will not allow visitors to see him until further notice. Oli, who has been receiving treatment at the Manmohan Cardio Thoracic Vascular and Transplant Centre at TU Teaching Hospital since Monday morning, needs to rest, the doctors said. They said that they are working on easing the Prime Minister’s chest infection Published on October 30th, Tuesday, 2018 5:24 PM 
Kathmandu, October 30 Doctors attending to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli have said his health is gradually improving. Oli has been admitted to Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital for treatment of chest infection and imbalanced sugar level among other ailments since Monday morning. But, as of Tuesday morning, he has been able to take breakfast and shave on his own, according to the doctors. They claim if the improvement remains steady, he can be discharged after around two days. Manmohan Cardiothoracic Vascular and Transplant Centre of the TUTH says reports of his latest blood test and chest x-ray are also positive. Dr Arun Sayami, a senior member of Oli’s treatment team says they had suspected heart problems in the Prime Minister earlier. But, the tests proved the suspicion wrong. Cardiologist Dr Sayami, PM’s personal physician Dr Divya Singh Shah and general physician Dr Santa Kumar Das are looking after the PM. Published on October 30th, Tuesday, 2018 10:42 AM 
Parasi, October 30 The Province 5 government has initiated developing a master plan for the promotion of tourism industry here. In this connection, discussions are being held with thematic experts, Investment Board and the federal government regularly, shared province government’s spokesperson and Minister for Physical Infrastructure Development Baija Nath Chaudhary. At a district level programme as part of the national campaign targeted for Nepal Tourism Year 2020 in Sunawal in Nawalparasi, Minister Chaudhary said the province government would formulate tourism master plan, focusing on tourism and agriculture, the main pillars for prosperity. He also informed that the province government had come up with a plan to operate electric and tourism buses. The electric and tourist buses would come into operation in Lumbini Buddha Circuit from this year, he said, adding the government was also making preparations to run electric and touristes bus on Swargadwari-Thakurdwara and Ramgram-Triveni roads after Bhairahawa-based Gautam Buddha International Airport would come into operation. Chief District Officer of Nawalparasi, Devendra Lamichhane, stressed the need to make wider publicity of diverse cultures of the country to attract foreign tourists. The federal government has announced to mark the year 2020 as Nepal Tourism Year with the target of bringing two million tourists. “It is the responsibility of all sides to join hands to meet the national target,” said central chairperson of Federation of Tourism Journalists, Dhaniram Sharma. The Federation has put in place a national campaign in all 77 districts as part of its collaboration with the government. RSS Published on October 30th, Tuesday, 2018 10:27 AM 
Kathmandu, October 29 Police in Kathmandu say they have arrested three persons including the ‘chief shooter’ of the murder of construction entrepreneur Sharad Kumar Gauchan in the capital on October 9 last year. Amar Bahadur Rana, Lopsang Lama and Roshan Budhathoki were held from Sikkim of India recently, according to sources at Metropolitan Crime Division. Rana is said to be the chief shooter. Earlier, police had arrested Shyam Gombe among other suspects and he was also said to be the chief shooter. Likewise, Lama was also involved in the murder of youth leader Durga Tiwari in Rupandehi in 2016. Budhathoki was a planner of Gauchan murder, police add. Gauchan was murdered in Naya Baneshwor of Kathmandu on October 9 last year. Responding to demands of the family and construction fraternity, the government has already decided to declare him a martyr. Published on October 29th, Monday, 2018 4:14 PM 
Kathmandu, October 29 Rastriya Prajatantra Party Chairman and former Deputy Prime Minister Kamal Thapa has predicted that Nepal will suffer a political turmoil after neighbouring India will hold general elections in April-May next year. “I can see the possibility of a big storm in Nepal’s national politics after the polls,” Thapa tells Onlinekhabar in an interview, “Nepal will head towards instability and anarchy again after around seven months.” Thapa claims many political interest groups are waiting for a right time to show their strength in the country, and they will get the time after the Indian polls will be over. According to him, these groups include Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led communist outfit and CK Raut’s secessionist group. “Congress and Madhesh-centric parties are also waiting for the opportunity.” “If we fail to address emerging problems carefully, we will reach an accident. The accident may destroy current political system,” he says, “It will invite foreign interference and it will ultimately lead to a separation.” “Therefore, all political parties should keep people at the centre, elevating themselves up from vested interests of their parties,” he suggests, adding, “Our future will also depend on how Prime Minister KP Oli and the ruling party move ahead.” Published on October 29th, Monday, 2018 12:14 PM 
Kathmandu, October 29 Province 1 Chief Minister Sher Dhan Rai has decided to visit Bumrungrad International Hospital in Bangkok of Thailand after hospitals of Nepal failed to diagnose a problem that he is suffering from. For past few months, he has developed unnecessary shivering of neck. He visited different hospitals of the country in a bid to identify the problem. Upon the failure, a recent meeting of provincial Council of Ministers approved his visit. Therefore, Rai is scheduled to fly to the Thai capital this Saturday. Meanwhile, Rai has clarified that he is not taking any fund from the government to cover his expenses during the trip. “I am visiting Bangkok on my own expenses during Tihar holidays. I have made the decision only after my disease could not be diagnosed by many hospitals of Nepal.” Bumrungrad is the place where Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli also goes often. Published on October 29th, Monday, 2018 11:36 AM 
Baglung, October 29 The inflow of domestic and foreign tourists has abruptly increased in popular tourism destinations, Myagdi and Mustang, especially during the festive time of Dashain and Tihar. With the rise in the number of tourists visiting, the hotels available in the districts are fully occupied and are not adequate to accommodate the guests. As a result, tourists visiting the places have started descending to Baglung and Parbat districts in search for hotels. “Many tourists go to Myagdi and Mustang this season”, said Nilesh Rajbhandari, a tourism entrepreneur of Baglung, adding, “There are no big hotels in the districts; so tourists come to Baglung searching for hotels.” RSS Published on October 29th, Monday, 2018 10:56 AM 
Kathmandu, October 28 Nepal Airlines is yet to put its two new wide-body aircraft to optimum use, four months after the state-owned company welcomed its first A330. The company had said that the new aircraft would be used to launch direct flights to Korea, Japan and the UAE. However, the two new jets have not received permission to fly to any of those destinations. NAC is flying the jets to destinations such as New Delhi, Doha and Bangalore, suitable for narrow-body aircraft. “When the NAC approached the Korean and Japanese governments before the aircraft were procured, they did not believe that the company could procure the two aircraft and refused to start the registration process,” said a government source. “Now that the planes have arrived, the company needs to start negotiations from scratch,” the source said. The underutlisation of the two wide-body aircraft costs the NAC pretty penny. According to sources, the company is losing upto Rs 250 a month because its wide-body jets cannot fly far. The company would have earned up to Rs 300 million if it could fly the aircraft for 16 hours a day. However, the A330s are only flying upto eight hours a day. NAC’s growing list of rejection The state-owned company tried to seek permission to fly to Incheon and Henada Airport in Japan, but both Korean and Japanese authorties are skeptical about Nepal’s air security record. South Korea has said it would monitor air safety in Nepal, but has not sent at team to Nepal. The NAC also approached Guangzhou Airport for permission, but Chinese officials rejected the proposal saying they were short on slots. The company is now looking at Shanghai. Meanwhile, NAC’s spokesperson Ashok Sigdel says the wide-body aircraft are in operation, regardless the distance they cover. “The aircraft are in operation and as long as this continues, we are not losing money.” Published on October 28th, Sunday, 2018 4:35 PM 
Chitwan, October 28 Province 3 Chief Minister Dor Mani Poudel says his province will get its name permanent name and capital within next one month. Though nearly one year passed since seven provincial governments and legislative bodies came into existence after the elections, only three of them have finalised their names and capitals so far. After inaugurating the International Poultry Symposium in Bharatpur of Chitwan district today, Poudel told journalists that the Provincial Assembly had already begun discussion the issue. Hence, it would not take much time now. He claimed the Assembly meeting to be held after Tihar festival, which is just two weeks away, would finalise the name and capital. Adding that the parties in Provincial Assembly did not have much differences over the issues, he hoped that they would be decided in consensus of all parties. Published on October 28th, Sunday, 2018 2:55 PM 
Kathmandu, October 28 Traders have planned to import marigold flowers and garlands worth Rs 3 million for upcoming Tihar festival. Kathmandu needs around 1 million garlands for the festival. Whereas the domestic production covers around 60 per cent of the supply, around 400,000 garlands will be imported from India, according to the traders. Annually, around 90 per cent share of the market is covered by the domestic production. However, the ratio changes as the demand swells during the festival. Nepal, however, has become independent in globe amaranth and chrysanthemum flowers and garlands for the festive season and no import will be made, according to the traders. Besides major cities such as Kathmandu and Pokhara, most parts of the country, however, produce flowers to meet Tihar demands on their own. Published on October 28th, Sunday, 2018 2:41 PM 
Kathmandu, October 26 Backtracking from its earlier decision of imposing a partial ban on the movement of tippers in Kathmandu Valley, the government is preparing to let the vehicles, notorious for hit and run cases, operate in the capital. As a preparation of lifting the ban, the government today decided to let 24 tippers of Ring Road Improvement Project ply the roads from today itself. Earlier, stakeholders had held a meeting at the Ministry of Home Affairs to discuss the issue. The meeting decided to let the tippers of Project ply freely as its deadline of December is coming closer, according to Lalitpur Chief District Officer Prem Raj Joshi who was present at the meeting. It has been learned that other tippers will also be allowed to ply freely soon. In the wake of fatal accidents caused by the tippers, the government had restricted their mobility in the Valley to nighttime (8 pm-5 am) only. Published on October 26th, Friday, 2018 2:27 PM 
Kathmandu, October 26 Visiting Communist Party of India (Marxist) Secretary General Sitaram Yechury has called on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Friday. Meanwhile, Yechury also held a meeting with Nepal Communist Party General Secretary Bishnu Paudel. Yechury had landed in Kathmandu on Thursday for a short trip. While Yechury is in Kathmandu, the NCP Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal is in New Delhi. Yechury is scheduled to address a seminar to be organised by Pushpa Lal Memorial Foundation this afternoon. It is a major agenda item of his visit. Published on October 26th, Friday, 2018 2:13 PM 
Kathmandu, October 26 A search of land for the construction of an international stadium has been initiated in Bhaktapur district with a dispute deepening on the previously proposed construction site. An on-site inspection was carried out at Taudol, Sipadole, Chitrapur and Mahat Village of the Suryabinayak Municipality-8 of the district in course of the search. The Ministry of Youth and Sports had designated a technical team with a plan to explore potential sites for stadium construction in Suryabinyak Municipality-10 and Changunarayan Municipality-9. Minister Jagat Bahadur Biswokarma said that the best construction site would be explored and the process for construction would be put in place at the earliest. RSS Published on October 26th, Friday, 2018 1:05 PM 
Kathmandu, October 26 Minister for Federal Affairs and General Administration Lalbabu Pandit has requested the Province 2 government to put the implementation of Provincial Police Act on hold as it will intensify the conflict between provincial and federal governments. Insisting the stance of federal government that the province should have introduced the law after the implementation of a new federal police law, Pandit says the provincial government coming ahead of the centre was a mistake. He adds that another mistake would be added if the provincial government hurried for the implementation. “Endorsing the law in haste was their first mistake. Now, I believe it should not be pushed for implementation,” Pandit says in an interview with Onlinekhabar, “It will come into force after a guideline is issued on the basis of federal police law.” Pandit also maintains that the federal government will also not delay preparations to enact the federal police law.     Published on October 26th, Friday, 2018 10:51 AM 
Kathmandu, October 25 Newly appointed US ambassador to Nepal Randy W Berry has presented his credential to President Bidya Devi Bhandari amid a function at Sheetal Niwas. Berry was nominated to the post by US President Donald Trump four months ago. His nomination was approved by the US senate recently. Berry entered the US Foreign Service in 1993 and has served in Bangladesh, Egypt, South Africa, Uganda, New Zealand and Nepal. Between 2007 and 2009 Berry was the Deputy Chief of Mission in Nepal Published on October 25th, Thursday, 2018 7:05 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 25 Rastriya Janata Party Nepal Vice-president Brijesh Chandra Lal has accused NCP Chairman Prachanda of trying to fuel conflict between the federal and the provincial governments. Referring to Prachanda’s comments few days ago warning the provinces not to ‘overtake’ the centre, Lal said that such comments hint at the former Maoist leader’s ulterior motives. Going by the comments, we can say that Prachanda wants the conflict to aggravate and blame the government so that he can take over, said Lal. “The most the federal government can do is dissolve or suspend the provincial government. If the federal government resorts to this move, the situation will become more complicated,” he said speaking at a programme in Kathmandu. Lal called on the Prime Minister to convene a meeting of the inter-provincial council at the earliest so that multiple issues related to delegation of power can be resolved. Published on October 25th, Thursday, 2018 6:23 PM 
Kathmandu, October 25 The Secretary General of Communist Party of India (Marxist), Sitaram Yechuri, has arrived in Kathmandu for a short visit on Thursday morning. Nepal’s ruling party, Nepal Communist Party, has invited the Indian leader on the trip. NCP leaders Krishna Gopal Shrestha and Bishnu Rijal among others received him at the Tribhuvan International Airport today. During his Nepal sojourn, Yechury will hold meetings with President Bidya Devi Bhandari, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and NCP Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal among others. Likewise, he is also scheduled to address a seminar to be organised by Pushpa Lal Memorial Foundation in Kathmandu. Published on October 25th, Thursday, 2018 2:33 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 25 Nepal have beaten the Maldives 4-0 in the inaugural math of the SAFF U-15 Championship 2018. Nepal scored two goals in the first half and the other two in the second. Nepal’s John Limbu, Namas Thapa Magar, Shasank Bohora and Dipesh Rai scored for the team. In the other match of the day, Pakistan defeated India. *** The match will begin at 3 pm. The tournament that will end on November 3. Nepal, India, Pakistan, Bhutan, the Maldives and Bangladesh are participating. India and Pakistan will also compete in their first match today itself. Meanwhile, Nepal’s head coach Sanoj Shrestha says that Nepal are ready for the competition. “Preparations are all underway. The players are in good form. We have high hope to become the champions,” he says. Nepal are placed in Group ‘A’ alongside Bangladesh and Maldives, while India, Bhutan and Pakistan are in Group ‘B’. Nepal will play their second match against Bangladesh coming Saturday. Published on October 25th, Thursday, 2018 2:24 PM 
Chitwan, October 25 The government has hiked the entry fee of the Chitwan National Park (CNP), issuing a notice about this in the Nepal Gazette. CNP Chief Conservation Officer Bed Kumar Dhakal says a Nepali national will have to pay Rs 150, visitors from SAARC countries Rs 1,000 per person and visitors from other countries Rs 2,000 in entry fee to the Park. This includes the value added tax also. The per-person entry fee before this decision was Rs 113 for Nepalis, Rs 847.50 for the visitors from SAARC countries and Rs 1,695 for visitors from other countries. Similarly, the entry fee for a car on jungle safari trip in the CNP has been fixed at Rs 3,000 and for jeep on jungle safari Rs 5,000. Before this, all kinds of vehicles on jungle safari had to pay Rs 4,520. The per person fee for elephant safari is Rs 500 for Nepali nationals, Rs 1,500 for the visitors from SAARC countries and Rs 2,500 for visitors from other countries. Minors used to get 50 per cent concession on elephant safari trip before this. But now onwards, there will not be any concession. The tourists have to pay the entry fee and the elephant ride fee as well while riding an elephant. At present, a Nepali national has to pay Rs 1,100, visitors from SAARC countries Rs 1,600 per person and the visitors from other countries Rs 2,100 per person for elephant safari. RSS Published on October 25th, Thursday, 2018 2:08 PM 
Kathmandu, October 24 Preparations for the tea party to be hosted by the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) have been completed. The ruling party is hosting the tea party at Bhrikutimandap ground on the occasion Bijaya Dashami, Deepawali, Nepal Sambat New Year and Chhat festivals on coming Saturday for the first time after the merger between the then CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre. Central Committee member of the party, Krishna Gopal Shrestha, said that around 50,000 people would be invited to the tea party. The programme will take place from 12 noon to 5:00 pm. NCP General Secretary and Coordinator of Tea Ceremony Committee, Bishnu Poudel, and Standing Committee member Yogesh Bhattarai today inspected the tea party venue. Earlier, the UML and the Maoist Centre used to host the tea parties separately. The receptions were not organised last year due to federal and provincial elections. Shrestha said that party’s cadres and general people would be invited to the event from 12 noon to 3:00 pm while 3:00 pm to 5:00 pm would be allocated for VIP guests. RSS Published on October 24th, Wednesday, 2018 4:30 PM 
Kathmandu, October 24 Superintendent of Police Dilli Raj Bista, who has been suspended for alleged negligence in the probe of rape and murder of Nirmala Pant in Kanchanpur district three months ago, has denied the charge. Bista in his clarification submitted to the Ministry of Home Affairs today claimed he and his team followed due procedures in the investigation though it failed to identify the perpetrators. Nepal Police spokesperson SSP Uttam Raj Subedi informs Onlinekhabar that the Police Headquarters has forwarded the official’s statement to the Ministry today. Earlier, the Ministry had ordered Bista to furnish clarification over the charge, apparently as a preparation to fire him. Another official, Inspector Jagarish Bhatta, has also been ordered to submit the clarification. Sources say the government will fire both of them soon citing their clarifications were not satisfactory. Published on October 24th, Wednesday, 2018 3:43 PM 
Kathmandu, October 24 The government on Wednesday transferred secretaries of the Ministry of Health and Population and the Ministry of Urban Development. Whereas a Cabinet meeting decides the transfer of special class officers in general, the decision has been made without the meeting. Multiple sources say the ruling coalition partner, Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal, put pressure on the government to transfer the staff. The party has sent its two leaders–Upendra Yadav and Mohammad Istiyak Rai–to lead the Health and the Urban Development ministries respectively. It has been learned that Yadav had been piling pressure on the Prime Minister to remove Secretary Pushpa Chaudhary from his ministry. Chaudhary has been accused of financial irregularities. In the meantime, Rai also forced the PM to transfer Secretary Dipendra Nath Sharma though he is considered a ‘clean’ bureaucrat. Both Chaudhary and Sharma have been sent to the Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers. They have not been given specific responsibilities though. Meanwhile, Sushil Nath Pyakurel has been given the responsibility of Health Secretary. Incumbent Secretary at Office of the Nepal Trust, Ramesh Singh, has been sent to the Urban Development Ministry. Published on October 24th, Wednesday, 2018 3:24 PM 
Kathmandu, October 23 The Federation of Nepali Journalists (FNJ) has submitted an objection letter to the Embassy of Saudi Arabia to protest the alleged murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khasoggi. Journalist Khasoggi, who was based in the USA, served as an adviser to top Saudi officials but later fell out of favour with the government. He was recently killed inside the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey.Â However, Saudi authorities have dismissed the accusations as “lies”. According to FNJ general secretary Ramesh Bista, they submitted the objection letter at the embassy demanding fair and free investigation into the incident. Published on October 23rd, Tuesday, 2018 6:44 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 23 The upcoming meeting of the NCP standing committee will discuss the reshuffling of the Cabinet, but Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli will retain his post, says senior leader Devendra Poudel. Poudel, who was speaking at a programme in Kathmandu on Tuesday, said, “The Prime Minister now needs to change the members of his team. The upcoming meeting of the standing committee will decide on the matter. The Prime Minister will not be changed.” Poudel said that it was not the right time to judge the government on its performance. “It is not the right time to judge the government’s performance. We need to wait for at least three years to do that.” Published on October 23rd, Tuesday, 2018 6:32 PM 
 October 23, Janakpurdham NCP Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ has warned Province 2 Chief Minister Lal Babu Raut not to ‘overtake’ the centre. If Province 2 continues on its current path, it will lead to an accident, said the former Prime Minister. Dahal, who was speaking at the inauguration ceremony of the party’s new office in Province 2, said he was dissatisfied with the provincial government’s move to legislate laws to setup provincial police. He conceded that the centre did not prepare the federal police law on time. “But that does not mean that the province should legislate laws that go against the spirit of the constitution. It would be a mistake to try to overtake the centre. It could lead to an accident,” said Dahal at the programme also attended by Chief Minister Raut. “It is not just Province 2 that needs civil servants. Other provinces also need them. Let’s not invite an accident. I am serious about your demands,” said Dahal looking at Raut. Dahal’s comment comes as Province 2 lawmakers prepare to deliberate over the provincial police act prepared by Raut’s government. Raut has been accusing the centre of not doing enough to help the provinces recruit new civil servants and setup the provincial police force. He has been warning the centre that his government will recruit civil servants on its own if the centre does not legislate laws on time. Published on October 23rd, Tuesday, 2018 6:20 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 22 A record number of people were killed in road accidents in the Kathmandu Valley during this Dashain, figures from the Valley traffic police show. A total of 13 people lost their lives to 272 traffic accidents in Kathmandu between October 9-21, eight people were critically injured and 186 other injured, said Metropolitan Traffic Police. The number of on-the-road deaths is more than that recored during the past five Dashains. Published on October 22nd, Monday, 2018 2:45 PM 
 Food security exists when all people in a country, at all times, have physical and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food that meets their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life, according to the World Food Summit. This definition emphasises sufficiency, accessibility and affordability of nutritious food by all people at individual, household, national, regional and global levels. There are now several concepts and definitions of food security proposed by different organisations such as Food and Agricultural Organisation and World Bank, but the main themes of all those organisations remain the same. Food insecurity in Nepal depends on several factors and issues and constraints faced by the farmers practising subsistence agriculture. Some of such issues and constraints in the second include: On top of these is global climate change and variability, which is causing uncertainties in crop performance and overall risks in agriculture. Such uncertainties and risks will continue into the future too. All these factors consequently will result in food, nutrition and income insecurity at various levels, from individual to national. Current production and demand data for major cereal crops (such as rice, wheat, maize, and barley) indicate that there is chronic food deficit in mountains and hills (close to 0.1 million tons in each region), but some surplus in Terai (0.1 million tons). This results in about 0.1 million tons food deficit if the entire country is considered. However, due to policy defects, the surplus food from Terai is not distributed properly to food deficit areas in hills and mountains. Data reveal that there is plenty of room for increasing yields in farmers’ fields and reducing the yields gaps of major crops. Major causes of low crop yields are: Similar situations of low yields and low productivity exist in other crops, vegetables and fruits, as well as in livestock, poultry and fish. While there are great challenges for increasing crop yields and reducing yield gaps, and providing enough food to achieve food security, some sections of the society are talking about the promotion of organic farming without really understanding what the consequences would be if the country adopts organic farming without any research and knowledge base. While organic products can receive premium prices if quality is controlled and products are properly certified, there are several pertinent issues of organic farming. Some of such issues, among others, are: There are also significant issues related to processing, storage, marketing, quality control and certification of organic products. However, there are also some opportunities of organic manures for making granules and pellets through organic fertiliser machines, such as those now currently available and used in China, India, and Philippines. Nevertheless, with the current level of knowledge and research gap on organic farming in the country, it would be almost impossible to achieve food security if only organic farming is promoted by replacing the use of high-yielding inputs such as chemical fertilisers and pesticides in the country. Rather, commercialisation of agriculture with HYVs and hybrids with integrated nutrient, pest and water management should be the priority if food security has to be achieved in the country. Nepal needs to rapidly transfer its agricultural production systems from subsistence farming to commercial farming to achieve food security at various levels. For such transitions, however, there are several socio-economic and institutional bottlenecks for farmers, who are currently practising subsistence agriculture. Appropriate policy and research and extension supports are necessary for such transitions as practising commercial agriculture requires some basic pre-requisites. Some of such pre-requisites are developing irrigation facilities especially for dry or winter season, establishment of facilities or centres for soil testing, seed production/testing and for storage/processing of fruits and vegetables, transport of products (inputs/outputs) and markets (both domestic and international), rural agriculture roads and rural electrification. Commercialisation of agriculture will lead to modernisation and industrialisation. Once the pre-requisites are met, commercialisation can be practised through contract farming, cooperative farming or lease farming, all of which require farm mechanisation. In Nepal, especially in the hills and mountains, land fragmentation is a major bottleneck for commercialisation. Voluntary land consolidation by farmers or farmers’ groups or associations/organisations would be required and these would permit to use machines in fields. Other impending technological needs for achieving food security are:   On top of these, there is a need of improved policy and extension support for implementation of these technologies aimed at mechanisation and commercialisation. Globally, there are now new developments in agriculture research, aimed at improving efficiency in agriculture, including input and labour use, and ultimately achieving food security. Many of these developments are quite innovative and are appropriate for large scale commercial farming as has already been practised by farmers in developed countries. In the case of Nepal, such innovations can be useful in future and hence research and academic institutions need to start thinking and testing such innovations. Our priority for now and into the immediate future, however, is to increase the productivity of crops, livestock and other income-generating enterprises by practising improved technologies with high-yielding inputs that are quickly available and by mechanising the farming that would help reduce or close the enterprise performance (for example, crop yield, milk and meat from livestock), reduce labour needs and increase input use efficiency in farming. Such practises and innovations will ultimately enhance income-generating opportunities for rural youth and achieve food security at various levels. Timsina is Honorary Professor, University of Melbourne, Australia; Adjunct Professor, Agricultural and Forestry University, Nepal; and Consultant, International Maize and Wheat Research Centre, Mexico. Published on October 17th, Wednesday, 2018 12:07 PM 
Gorkha, October 15 Naya Shakti Party Nepal Coordinator and former Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai says the incumbent government has failed in its mission owing to its own little knowledge. The KP Sharma Oli-led government could not do any substantial work in past eight months, hence people would seek alternatives soon, according to him. Addressing a function in the headquarters of his home district today, the former Prime Minister said, “The government has been unable to bear its own burden. If it continues the same path, the future will be uncertain.” He claimed the government was unsuccessful in properly implementing the federal system. In another context, Bhattarai protested the government decision to award the Budhigandaki Hydropower Project contract to the China Gezhouba Group Company. He argued that the decision was made to meet vested interests of ruling party leaders.   Published on October 15th, Monday, 2018 3:28 PM 
Kathmandu, October 15 The crown worn by former kings has been made public on Monday. Now onwards, the visitors can have a look at the historical object at the Naraynhiti Palace Museum. Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli made the crown public amidst a event held at the Museum today. Public who visit the museum can observe the crown, which is being kept in a bulletproof showcase along with a scepter, the queen’s crown and a sword. Gyanendra Shah was the last king to wear the crown. After Nepal was declared a republic in 2008, he had refused to give up the crown, but he relinquished it after the government put pressure on him. The crown was kept in a digitally password protected cupboard since then. Published on October 15th, Monday, 2018 12:53 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 15 Police in the United Arab Emirates have arrested a member of the team that allegedly smuggled 33.5 kg gold via the Tribhuvan International Airport few months ago. Bisu Shrestha, a key member of the racket led by Chudamani Upreti aka Gore, was arrested under the coordination of International Crime Police Organisation (Interpol), according to Nepal Police. Shrestha was arrested from Dubai and was taken to Nepal on Sunday afternoon. Currently, he has been kept at the Metropolitan Police Circle in Gaushala. Officials say he will be produced beforeÂ  the Morang District Court today itself. The Court is hearing the case for past few months. Police have accused Shrestha of facilitating the smuggling of 38 kg gold in past three years from Dubai.   Published on October 15th, Monday, 2018 12:47 PM 
 Gulmi, October 15 Two persons have died in a jeep accident in Gulmi district of western Nepal on Monday morning. The four wheeler (Lu 1 Ja 2181) had met with the accident in Bisukharka, Chandrakot Rural Municipality-2 of the district. It was carrying passengers from Hatiya of Baglung to Chandrakot. The District Police Office has identified the victims as Lal Bahadur Gurung (35) and Bharat Gurung (52) of Chandrakot-2. It, however, says the number of total passengers on the vehicle is not known. Police are yet to identify causes of the accident. Further investigation is underway. Published on October 15th, Monday, 2018 10:32 AM 
Kathmandu, October 14 Rescue personnel have retrieved bodies of nine climbers, including four Koreans and five Nepalis, who were killed in a snowstorm on Gurja Himal, the lowest peak of Dhaulagiri Mountain Range, in western Nepal on Friday. Earlier, it was reported that eight persons died in the incident. One was missing. Of the bodies, eight are being taken to Kathmandu this afternoon. The ninth body belongs to a local of Gurja village, and it will be handed over the victim’s kin there, according to DSP Bir Bahadur Budha, Chief of the Myagdi District Police Office. A Simrik Air helicopter had taken the bodies to the village. The expedition team had left nearby Gurja village for the base camp on Sunday last week. After they could not be contacted for long, villagers had sent a search mission to the base camp on Friday. The mission members had found the bodies at the base camp on the same day. It was the first expedition on the 7,913 metre peak in past 10 years.   Published on October 14th, Sunday, 2018 3:29 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 14 Sajha Yatayat has begun online ticketing service to provide information about transport facilities and ticketing services in a convenient manner. The bus tickets can be booked for travelling outside the Kathmandu Valley. The cooperative informed that it made an agreement with bussewa.com for the online ticketing. With this, the customers can browse the three online portals, sajhayatayat.com.np, bussewa.com, esewa.com.np, to book the tickets. Those having esewa accounts can access the ticketing through their mobile phones and internet. The agreement was signed by Executive Director Bhushan Tuladhar on behalf of Sajha Yatayat and Executive Director PR Khanal on behalf of the Diyalo Technology. The Sajha bus is operated to Bhairahawa and Baglung from Kathmandu. RSS Published on October 14th, Sunday, 2018 3:18 PM 
Morang, October 14 An investigation team formed by the government to find perpetrators and reasons behind the murder of Khursid Alam Ansari, a teacher in Bhutaha of Sunsari district has failed to crack the mystery. The government had commissioned the team led by SSP Kishor Dahal to investigate into the case and submit the report within 15 days. However, has not submitted its report yet for the lack of substantial information. Ansari was murdered on September 20. An official involved in the probe says the committee has failed to find the motive behind the murder. Members of the committee, however, claim they are preparing the report and will submit it at the earliest. The Committee had also recorded statements of neighbours, relatives and police during the investigation. It has been reported that Indian shooters were mobilised in the crime. The government has already announced Ansari a martyr and provided Rs 1 million ex gratia support to the family. Published on October 14th, Sunday, 2018 3:08 PM 
Kathmandu, October 12 Nepal’s popular youth cricketer Sandeep Lamichhane has become the bowler who has taken the highest number of wickets in a single international tournament, among Nepali players. In the ongoing ICC T20 World Cup Regional Qualifier, Lamichhane has taken 24 wickets till today, and no Nepali has taken as many wickets so far. He is also the he bowler taking the highest number of wickets in the tournament. Before Lamichhane, Basant Regmi and Binod Das had the record as both of them had taken 21 wickets each in different tournaments. While Das had made the record in 2005, Regmi had achieved the status in 2012. Meanwhile, Nepal are playing their last match of the qualifier against Singapore on Friday. The Rhinos are chasing a 82 run target in the second innings. Published on October 12th, Friday, 2018 3:04 PM 
Kathmandu, October 12 Human rights activities have picketed the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar of Kathmandu on Friday afternoon, demanding action against perpetrators of various cases of rape including that of Nirmala Pant in Bhimdatta Nagar of Kanchanpur district in July. The protesters vented their ire over the delay in concluding the investigation and bringing the perpetrators to book. They showed placards against the government and Nepal Police. One of the leaders of the protesters, Kapil Dev Shrestha, says they were forced to picket the residence of the country’s chief executive as the government failed to name the perpetrators even three months have been passed since the incident. The demonstrators demanded that the government take immediate initiatives to control violence and ensure safety of citizens. Published on October 12th, Friday, 2018 2:37 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 12 Kuwait’s labour minister is coming to Nepal next week to sign a labour agreement between the two countries. The agreement signed during the Kathmandu visit of Hind Sabeeh Barak Al-Sabeeh will govern the employment of Nepali migrant workers in the Gulf country. Earlier, the two countries were scheduled to sign the agreement in the first week of October. The schedule was postponed as Nepal cited lack of preparations. More than 30,000 Nepali women are working as domestic workers in Kuwait. It is one of the most attractive labour destinations for Nepali women. Recently, the government has stopped issuing permits to new migrant workers. However, some of them are going through illegal channels. In this context, the two countries have expressed willingness to sign the contract to resolve these issues and ensure rights of the workers. Nepal has been asserting that the permits will not be issued before the agreement. Published on October 12th, Friday, 2018 2:20 PM 
Pokhara, October 12 Chief of the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority (CIAA) Navin Kumar Ghimire has said that there will be no political colour in the anti-corruption actions of the CIAA. At an interaction programme organised by the Civil Society for Good Governance, Kaski on Thursday, the Chief Commissioner said that whoever indulged in corruption would be brought to book. Saying that there was no governmental and political pressure on the CIAA, Ghimire vowed the anti-graft body’s activities would be in accordance with its jurisdiction in corruption control. He was of the view that the trend of holding the contract of the construction bids for long and delaying the projects’ completion would be brought under the CIAA scanner. Ghimire also shared that the national pride projects would be regularly monitored and the CIAA would continue its mission to curb corruption in such projects. RSS Published on October 12th, Friday, 2018 10:59 AM 
Kathmandu, October 11 Chief Minister of Province 2 Lal Babu Raut says that provincial police in his state was being constituted as per the spirit of the constitution.
Speaking at a programme organised to mark the 63rd Police Day on Thursday, he expressed confidence that the bill relating to provincial police would soon be passed from the provincial assembly. “Adjustment, collaboration and coordination in police, however, will be done as per the federal police act,” he said.
Minister for Internal Affairs and Law Gyanendra Kumar Yadav stressed on the need to modernise the police organisation and structure. Published on October 11th, Thursday, 2018 10:11 PM 
Kathmandu, October 11 The Madan Puraskar Guthi has presented the ‘Jagadamba-Shree’ and ‘Madan Puraskar’ for the year 2018. Litterateur Shanta Das Manandhar was honoured with the Jagadama-Shree award while the Madan Puraskar was presented to Nilam Karki Niharika for her novel ‘Yogmaya’.’ President of the Trust Kunda Dixit handed over the prizes at a function on Thursday. Both the prizes carry a purse of Rs. 200,000 each. Published on October 11th, Thursday, 2018 10:06 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 11 More than 21,000 websites offering pornographic content have banned in Nepal so far following the government’s decision to ban porn, according to the Nepal Telecommunications Authority (NTA). The government cracked down on pornographic websites in view of increasing incidents of rape and sexual harassment in the country. The NTA started making a list of such websites on September 24 acting on directives from the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology. According to the directive, the sharing, distribution and broadcasting of porn is now illegal in Nepal. There are over 100 internet service providers operating in Nepal. RSS Published on October 11th, Thursday, 2018 3:14 PM 
Kathmandu, October 11 President Bidya Devi Bhandari will offer tika and jamara to the members of the general public on the occasion of the Bada Dashain festival on October 19. The Presidentâ€™s personal joint secretary and priest at the Office of the President, Hem Chandra Dhakal, gave out this information while initiating the ritual of Ghatasthapana at the President House on Wednesday. Dhakal said the President would offer tika and jamara to the distinguished persons and the members of the general public coming to the President’s House to receive blessings from the Head of the State. The President would be giving tika and jamara at the auspicious hour on the day of the Bijaya Dashami after partaking in the rituals with her family members, Dhakal said. The auspicious hour for receiving tika this year is 09:51 am on October 19, according to the Nepal Panchanga Nirnayak Samiti Chair Ram Chandra Gautam. RSS Published on October 11th, Thursday, 2018 12:42 PM 
Kathmandu, October 11 Nepal’s veteran bowler Shakti Gauchan has hinted that he may announce retirement from the domestic cricket after the completion of Pokhara Premier League scheduled to begin on October 26. Gauchan had retired from the international cricket after Nepal’s first one day international matches against the Netherlands in August. “Currently, I am preparing for the PPL,” the 34-year-old says, “I have not made any final decision. But, this can be my last season in the domestic cricket.” However, Gauchan clarifies that he is not tired yet. “Rather, I am more energetic. Rather than playing, now we should pay our attention to the development of cricket,” Gauchan says, hinting he is eyeing some positions in the sport’s governance. “There are limited players. So who will develop the game now? Who will take the lead?,” he says, “These questions have triggered thought about retirement in me.” Published on October 11th, Thursday, 2018 12:00 PM 
Kathmandu, October 10 NCP leader and former minister Bhim Rawal, who has been portrayed as the party’s answer to NC President Sher Bahadur Deuba in the Far-west, has criticised the party leadership for not following the due process when taking key decisions. Rawal, who has positioned himself as a vocal critic of the Oli government, recently took to social media to state that some of the decisions being taken by the Oli government are against the national interest. The former defence minister, who was one of the first to object to Nepal’s decision to participate in the BIMSTEC military drill, said in an interview with Onlinekhabar the party leadership needs to take the Standing Committee more seriously. Asked if he was unhappy over the party’s decision to make its MP from Kathmandu-7 resign and field Bamdev Gautam for the seat, Rawal said, “I am not saying the decision should be reversed. I am saying that the Standing Committee should have discussed this issue.” “The Standing Committee should have discussed the details before the decision was taken,” he added. Rawal said that if the people criticise this decision, it would be up to leaders like him to defend it. He demanded that the party secretariat and the two chairmen of the party take the Standing Committee seriously. Published on October 10th, Wednesday, 2018 3:16 PM 
Kathmandu, October 10 Nepali Congress leader Krishna Prasad Sitaula has forced the party leadership to postpone the meeting of its Central Working Committee scheduled for Thursday. Party President Sher Bahadur Deuba postponed the meeting after Sitaula and some leaders close to him warned of boycotting the meeting, and creating some ‘untoward’ situations if the meeting was held despite settling the issue they raised. Sitaula has protested the party’s decision to fixing the age limit for the party’s student wing, Nepal Students Union, at 32 years. Earlier, the party’s General Secretary Purna Bahadur Khadka had tried to convince Sitaula to join the meeting. In response, Sitaula had suggested that Deuba should not be ‘foolish’ by taking all decisions on the majority basis, by ignoring dissident voices. Some other leaders including Prakash Man Singh and Arjun Narsingha KC had also warned of boycotting the meeting. Published on October 10th, Wednesday, 2018 1:22 PM 
Kathmandu, October 10 The government has decided to let public transport vehicles to operate their services on any road across the country without obtaining route permits for next one week. The decision intends to facilitate the easy movement of passengers during their greatest festival of Dashain, which began today. The transporters do not require permits till October 17, according to Lawanya Kumar Dhaka, Director General at the Department of Transport Management. Meanwhile, the Department has blocked the movement of big trucks in the Kathmandu Valley during this period. Dhakal says the trucks will be obstructed in Narayangadh of Chitwan district to ensure smooth traffic on the highways and city roads. Published on October 10th, Wednesday, 2018 1:02 PM 
Kathmandu, October 9 The government-run electricity distributor, Nepal Electricity Authority, has begun signing performance contract with key staff across the country in its bid to control power leakage during the distribution process. The Authority’s Managing Director Kul Man Ghising signed the contract with Nepalgunj regional office Chief Manoj Kumar Singh during a function in Nepalgunj of Banke district yesterday. At the same function, the Authority’s Distribution and Consumer Service Directorate’s DeputyÂ  Executive Director Hararaj Neupane exchanged the contract with chiefs of 16 distribution centres. Minister for Energy Barsha Man Pun and the Ministry Secretary Anup Upadhyaya were also present at the function. The Authority says it has extended the contract system to other places after an experiment at Biratnagar office last year proved successful. In the first phase, the Authority will sign contracts with chiefs of eight distribution centres. Whereas the power leakage was 20.45 per cent last year, the Authority has intended to restrict it to 11.65 per cent this year. Published on October 9th, Tuesday, 2018 2:53 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 9 The Finance Committee in House of Representatives has directed the government to fix prices of daily consumables before key festivals such as Dashain and Tihar. A meeting of the Committee held today directed the government to fix minimum prices of the commoditiesÂ at least two months ahead of the festivals. Likewise, the government has also been told to open fair price shops targeting such festivals. The decision follows complaints from members of the public that traders have haphazardly increased the prices of consumables such as sugar, cooking oil and flour ahead of the festivals. Government officials monitor the market, but it is a mere formality most of the times.   Published on October 9th, Tuesday, 2018 2:27 PM 
Kathmandu, October 9 National Reconstruction Authority’s Chief Executive Officer Sushil Gyewali says the Authority is mobilising senior engineers in all local units of the 2015 earthquake-affected region so as to give a momentum to the reconstruction of individual households. He says the World Bank has agreed to fund salary and other benefits of such engineers. Speaking with journalists in Kathmandu on Tuesday, Gyewali said the Authority was committed to completing all reconstruction works at the earliest. He assured that the reconstruction of monuments with historical and archaeological significance, and buildings of academic and health institutions would not be delayed. In another context, the top official said he had written a letter to the Nepal Rastra Bank requesting to release reconstruction grants easily. Published on October 9th, Tuesday, 2018 2:16 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 8 A tourist bus service connecting Kathmandu with Lumbini, one of the main tourist destinations of the country, has come into operation for the first time.
Travel Nepal Bus Services Pvt Ltd will run the service on the route. The company already runs buses from Kathmandu to Pokhara.
The Kathmandu-Sunauli-Lumbini bus service came into operation on Monday.
Company Proprietor Prahlad Lohani informed that they three buses will run on the route. The buses have comfortable sofa seat, a rest room and a smoking zone.
The bus for Lumbini leaves from Gaushala of Kathmandu at 6.30 am. Tickets can be purchased through Travel Nepal online. RSS Published on October 8th, Monday, 2018 8:10 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 8 The National Campaign for Education, a network of civil society organisations working for right to education and child rights, has suggested the government not add any more new schools in the country. Handing over its recommendation to the High-level National Education Commission, 2075 on Monday, the network has suggested that existing schools be managed to implement the constitutional provision of free and mandatory education. It has also suggested the government adopt a policy to gradually discourage private investment in school education.
Network Chair Kumar Bhattarai handed over the recommendations to the Commission cChair and Minister for Education, Science and Technology Giriraj Mani Pokharel. The commission, constituted two months ago with a four-month term, has collected recommendations and suggestion by setting up task groups under various themes. Published on October 8th, Monday, 2018 8:01 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 8 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has said that his recent visit to the United Nations (UN) Headquarters in New York to attend the 73rd session of the UN General Assembly (UNGA) and the trip to Costa Rica were successful. During the secretariat meeting of the Communist Party of Nepal on Monday, the party chair and Prime Minister said his address to the UNGA was fruitful in informing the international community of Nepal’s political changes and theÂ peace process.
During the meeting at the Prime Minister’s official residence, Baluwatar, the Prime Minister said both visits were constructive in expanding the country’s bilateral relations with various nations, according to party Spokesperson Narayan Kaji Shrestha. The meeting was also informed of the recent China visit by party another chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘ Prachanda’, senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal’s China and Ghana trips, and the China visit by a delegation led by Spokesperson Shrestha. Published on October 8th, Monday, 2018 4:35 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 8 Nepal Police on Monday suspended two more police personnel as it continued investigating into the role of its staff in the rape and murder of 13-year-old Nirmala Pant in Bhimdatta Nagar of Kanchanpur, and destruction of the evidence. Those suspended today are assistant subinspector Harasingh Dhami and constable Chandani Saud. Nepal Police spokesperson Shailesh Thapa Kshetri says the personnel were suspended as their activities were found to be suspicious. Saud is said to have washed the victim’s trousers after the incident, which could have been used as evidence. SP Dilli Raj Bista, DSPs Angur GC and Gyan Bahadur Seti, Inspectors Jagarish Bhatta and Ekendra Khadka and SI Ram Singh Dhami are facing suspension in connection with the case. Meanwhile, the probe committee formed by the Ministry of Home Affairs has hinted at police officials’ carelessness in handling the case, suggesting further investigation. The report was made public yesterday. Published on October 8th, Monday, 2018 12:00 PM 
Kathmandu, October 8 Four members of the Nepali Congress Central Working Committee on Sunday have objected to the decision made by the CWC meeting on the age limit for members of the party’s student wing, Nepal Students Union. Those expressing their note of dissent during the meeting on late Sunday night include senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel and influential leader Krishna Prasad Sitaula, who had contested against Sher Bahadur Deuba for the party presidency. Prakash Man Singh and Arjun Narsingha KC have also objected to the decision. However, the meeting set the upper limit at 32 years as the majority of members supported the proposal filed by party’s Joint General Secretary Prakash Sharan Mahat. The dissident leaders have claimed the party did not follow due procedures while discussing the statute. Published on October 8th, Monday, 2018 10:55 AM 
Kathmandu, October 7 The government has decided to increase the minimum wage of journalists by 25 per cent. As decided by per the Cabinet meeting held in Kathmandu today, journalists working for national media will get at least Rs Rs 24,300 a month, according to the Minister for Communications and Information Technology, Gokul Banskota. Earlier, the minimum wage was Rs 19,500. The new decision will come into effect from mid-October, according to the government spokesperson. The Minister clarifies that the decision will not apply to online media for now. However, the online portals are required to announce their status as national, provincial or local, and it will decide the minimum wage they have to pay to the journalists. Meanwhile, the Cabinet meeting appointed senior columnist and writer Krishna Murari Bhandari as the Executive Chairman of Gorkhapatra Corporation. Earlier, the meeting had accepted the resignation tendered by the Corporation’s Chairman Govinda Pokharel. Published on October 7th, Sunday, 2018 2:57 PM 
Kathmandu, October 7 As Nepalis are heading towards the biggest annual festivity next week, fruit traders say they have planned to import fruits worth Rs 300 million from other countries to serve the consumers this season. Nepal needs to import around 1,500 tonne of fruits for the biggest festival this year, they estimate. Whereas the domestic production is already insufficient to meet the market need, the demand for fruits doubles during Dashain and Tihar festivals, according to the traders. The country will import apples worth around Rs 200 million from China, according to the treasurer of Nepal Fruit Wholesalers Association, Kashiram Sapkota. He claims the domestic production covers only 10 per cent of apple market in Nepal. Likewise, the country imports imports around 60 per cent of total bananas from India, according to him. “China will sell around 600 container apples during Dashain,” he says, “Likewise, we will spend around Rs 40 million to import bananas for the festival.” Nepal imports fruits worth Rs 7 billion every year, according to the traders. Published on October 7th, Sunday, 2018 1:00 PM 
Kathmandu, October 7 Nepal Police Chief, Inspector General Sarbendra Khanal, says he will remove all ‘termites’ of the national police organisation who have been destroying the image of the entire body. Khanal says he cannot accept the entire organisation being blamed for the wrongdoings of some persons. The Police Chief’s statement comes at a time when the Nepal Police is facing severe criticism from various concerns of society for its inability to find perpetrators of July 26 rape and murder of Nirmala Pant in Kanchanpur. In the meantime, some police officials have been accused of destroying evidence of the case. “We and the entire organisation are being blamed because of some officials,” he said while addressing a sports event in Kathmandu, “But, I am committed to identifying and removing such termites. Everyone should support me in that mission.” He urged all police personnel to express commitment in correcting the wrongs.   Published on October 7th, Sunday, 2018 12:38 PM 
Butwal, October 7 The government of Province 5 has announced a contract farming programme to let landless peasants make living by cultivating the land which has been left barren. Under the scheme, local governments will be held responsible to find barren land and make it available for landless people under a contract signed between the landlords and peasants, according to the province’s Minister for Land Management, Agriculture and Cooperatives, Aarati Paudel. The peasants need not pay any charge for the land they get for farming for the first year, according to her. In the next years, the government and the farmers have to pay jointly, she informs. “Not only the landless people, but landlords will also benefit from the programme,” Paudel says, adding, “People from Bardiya and Dang districts have expressed their interests in the programme.” The Ministry’s Secretary Yam Narayan Devkota says a guideline has already been finalised and the programme will be launched soon. The government has allocated Rs 100 million budget for the programme this year. It has targeted to cultivate 2,000 bigaha land. Published on October 7th, Sunday, 2018 11:20 AM 
 Kathmandu, October 5 With Nepal’s anti-corruption body moving the Special Court against the owners of Pappu Construction for embezzling money meant for the construction of a bridge in Bardia, lawmaker Hari Narayan Rauniyar, the man behind the company faces automatic suspension. According to the parliamentary rules, Rauniyar can continue to wear Parliament’s logo, but won’t receive perks and benefits received by other lawmakers. The MP from Parsa-3 was president of Pappu Construction before being elected member of Parliament. The CIAA moved the Special Court against Rauniyar, his son Sumit, and 12 others for their role in using sub-standard material to build a bridge in Bardia. According to Anti-corruption Act, and the CIAA Act, public figures being investigated for corruption are automatically suspended. Published on October 5th, Friday, 2018 7:09 PM 
     Kathmandu, October 5 Nepal’s anti-corruption watchdog CIAA has moved the Special Court against Pappu Construction, a controversial company accused of failing to complete several infrastructure projects around the country. The CIAA has filed a corruption case against former Pappu chief and MP Hari Narayan Rauniyar and his son Sumit, who now oversees the daily administration of the company. The CIAA has accused Pappu of embezzling over Rs 190 million by using sub-standard building materials when construction the Jabdighat Bridge in Bardia in western Nepal. The commission has also filed cases against then chief of Division Road Office Nepalganj Bhanu Joshi, and staffers Manoj Shrestha and Rajesh Kumar. A case has also been filed against Krishna Dev Yadav of Everest Engineering Consultatnts, a partner in the project. Published on October 5th, Friday, 2018 4:38 PM 
The government of Japan has agreed to provide a grant assistance of Rs 308 millions for the School Sector Development Programme of Nepal for the fiscal year 2018. The Exchange of Notes, Grant Agreement and Memorandum of Understanding to this effect were signed and exchanged between the governments of Nepal and Japan at the Ministry of Finance, Kathmandu on Friday, stated a press release issued by Ministry of Finance. The SSDP is a continuation of School Sector Reform Programmme (SSRP) under the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. The objective of the programme is to improve the quality, equitable access and efficiency of basic and secondary education in Nepal. The programme especially focuses on improved teaching-learning and student learning outcomes, improved equitable access to basic and secondary education and strengthened education system, sector planning, management and governance. Further the programme is being implemented in a more harmonised and coordinated way through joint financing agreement in a sector-wide approach with other Development Partners as well.
This is the seven-year period programme started in the fiscal year 2016/17. The Exchange of Notes was signed by Shreekrishna Nepal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Mr. Masamichi Saigo, Ambassador of Japan to Nepal, on behalf of the Japanese government.
The government of Nepal has expressed its appreciation to the government of Japan for the assistance and the continued support to the socio-economic development of Nepal. RSS Published on October 5th, Friday, 2018 2:36 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 4 Market monitors deployed by the government on Thursday sealed two more sweet shops of Kathmandu after they found cockroaches in their kitchens. Officials of the Department of Food Technology and Quality Control sealed Byanjan and Annapurna, located in Gaushala, near popular Pashupatinath Temple of Kathmandu. On Tuesday, the officials had sealed an outlet of Sangam Sweets in Naya Baneshwor of Kathmandu. Consumer rights activist Madhav Timalsina, a member of the monitoring team, says kitchens of these shops were dirty. Likewise, products of these shops did not clearly mention manufacturing and expiry dates, according to him. The government has been carrying out market monitoring activities more frequently in the run-up to biggest festivals of Dashain and Tihar. Published on October 4th, Thursday, 2018 3:42 PM 
Kathmandu, October 4 The third edition of Everest Premier League (EPL) has been scheduled for the opening on December 8. The tournament will last till December 22. The organisers announced the date amidst a press conference in Kathmandu on Thursday. The organising company’s Managing Director Amir Akhtar said preparations had already begun for the tournament. The company had already sent various documents to the International Cricket Council, seeking the global cricket governing body’s approval for the tournament, according to him. “Hopefully, we will get the approval by November,” he added. Meanwhile, some international players are likely to miss the tournament as the dates clash with other events. However, Akhtar said the date would not be changed considering the time of a handful of players. “We have talked with the owners of the teams and they are okay with the dates,” he added. Published on October 4th, Thursday, 2018 3:28 PM 
Bardiya, October 4 A rare royal Bengal tiger was found dead in Bardiya National Park (BNP) on Wednesday afternoon. The body of the spotted tiger, aged around 17, was recovered near Chisapani post inside the BNP, some 700 metres away from the East-West Highway, Assistant Conservation Officer of the BNP, Badri Binod Dahal, said. Officials said that the tiger would have died natural death nearly a week ago as it was already old. The entire body of the tiger was completely decayed. With the latest death, the number of adult big cats in the BNP has reduced to 87. RSS Published on October 4th, Thursday, 2018 3:05 PM 
Kathmandu, October 4 The ruling Nepal Communist Party is preparing to call a meeting of its Standing Committee to discuss contemporary political issues including a dispute surfaced over the distribution of provincial responsibilities. The meeting is likely within next few days as the party’s Chairman and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is returning home after attending the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly and visiting Costa Rica. Likewise, the party’s senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal is also returning home today from China. Of late, Nepal has expressed his dissatisfaction with the leadership publicly for the Secretariat’s decision of appointing officials of the provincial committees. He says leaders close to him were barred from the responsibility. Sources in the party say the Standing Committee meeting will be held before the Dashain festival, which is around two weeks away. Before the Standing Committee, the Secretariat, comprising nine top leaders of the party, will hold a meeting. Exact dates for both meetings will be decided in consultation with both the chairpersons of the party, Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal. Published on October 4th, Thursday, 2018 12:16 PM 
 Parbat, October 4 The Parbat District Court has ordered 10 years in jail to President of Free Students’ Union of Kushma-based Gupteshwor Multiple Campus, Shishir Chhetri, for raping a girl. Chhetri is a leader of the Nepali Congress affiliate Nepal Students Union. The single bench of District Judge Surya Bahadur Thapa announced the verdict convicting Chhetri, 23, a permanent resident of Kushma Municipality-1. Chhetri and other youth had assaulted a 16-year-old girl who was returning home from Baglung after attending the Chaite Dashain fair some 18 months ago. Chhetri was sentenced five years behind the bars for his crime against civil code and equal term in jail on the charge of the organised crime. Likewise, the court ordered that two minor offenders arrested along with Chhetri would be kept in a juvenile detention centre for five years and one year each. However, the court has given the clean chit to hotelier Sher Bahadur Hamal. RSS Published on October 4th, Thursday, 2018 11:56 AM 
 Dhangadhi, October 3 An unidentified group on Wednesday morning torched copies of the Kantipur, The Kathmandu Post and Nagarik daily in Attariya bazaar of Kailali district. Four unidentified people seized stacks of the newspapers from a distribution jeep in Attariya bazaar and set them on fire. The newspapers were brought from Nepalgunj. The Federation of Nepali Journalists (FNJ) Kailali branch had condemned the incident and sought stern action against the people involved in the incident. It termed the incident as an attack on press freedom. Published on October 3rd, Wednesday, 2018 6:59 PM 
   Saptari, October 3 Rastirya Janata Party-Nepal has demanded that the government amend the constitution to address its demands and take action against perpetrators of grave crimes against women. The RJP has decided to submit petitions to district adminstration offices around the country on Monday to draw the attention of the Prime Minister towards these issues. Talking to mediapersons in Rajbiraj on Wednesday, RJP leader Rajendra Maharo saod that the petition is being submitted to warn the government to take action against pertinent problems facing the country. “We have witnessed a rise in corruption, violence and rape cases. Inflation has hit the people hard. These problems need to be addressed at the earliest,”said Mahato. Mahato said that if the government did not mend its ways, the party would resort to protests, both on the streets and in Parliament, after the festive season. Published on October 3rd, Wednesday, 2018 3:57 PM 
 Chitwan, October 3 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa has vowed to launch a campaign to fight rising cases of violence against women. Speaking at programme in Biratnagar, Home Minister said that hundreds of thousands of schoolgoers and the people’s representatives will be mobilised in the course of the campaign. Thapa held that alcoholism and drug abuse were the at the root of the problem and the government will regulate and control the alcohol business and take action against those dealing in narcotics. He said the Nirmala Panta case has been ‘unnecessarily politicised’ although the Home Ministry has been conducting a deep investigation into the case. Stating that a high-level investigation team was sent to the incident site the day after Panta’s death, Home Minister Thapa insisted that the Ministry of Home Affairs was moving ahead seriously to book the culprits of this incident. Published on October 3rd, Wednesday, 2018 3:13 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 3 Nepal registered a thumping victory against Myanmar in their first match of the ICC World T20 East Asia Sub-regional qualifiers being played in Malaysia. Having won the toss, Myanamar, a relatively new entrant to world cricket, posted a target of 30 runs, which Nepal chased down in three overs. The Burmese batsmen never looked to threaten the Nepali bowlers who dominated the proceedings–not single six was hit during the first innings. Nepal’s Sandeep Lamichhane was the pick of the bowlers. He claimed four wickets. Spinner Lalit Rajbanshi claimed three wickets. Nepal’s tried a new opening pair in Pradeep Airee and Binod Bhandari. However, Airee was out for a duck. Karan KC, who came in at number 4 saw the team home with his quick-fire 14 off eight balls. Nepal are pitted with Singapore, Malaysia, Bhutan, China, Myanmar and Thailand in the Eastern sub-region Qualifier. Top three teams qualify for the Asia Qualifiers. Nepal now play Malaysia on Saturday. Published on October 3rd, Wednesday, 2018 2:45 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 2 Nepal’s U-19 cricket team have registered a consolation win against the UAE in the final group match of the Youth Asia Cup. Both Nepal and the UAE went into the match having lost their previous two matches. Nepal beat the UAE by three wickets thanks to a patient knock by Rohit Kumar Paudel. Nepal chased down the 269-run target set by the UAE with three wickets to spare. Nepal’s opener Trit Raj Das was out for 6. But skipper Aasif Seikh, who came in at number three, steadied the innings and scored 35 before getting out. Then came Rohit Kumar Paudel who made 92 runs to make sure Nepal reached close to the total set by the opposition. Nepal’s Nandan Kumar Yadav, Rashid Khan and Pawan Sharraf claimed two wickets each. Published on October 2nd, Tuesday, 2018 8:25 PM 
 Kathmandu, October 2 A Korean firm has been awarded the contract to prepare the Kathmandu-Nijgadh Fast Track being developed by the Nepali Army. Soosung Engineering will prepare the DPR in 105 days and will be paid Rs 102 million for the work, says an agreement signed by the company’s chair Keehyun Hwang and the Nepali Army’s Major General Yogendra Bahadur Khand. The Nepali Army was negotiating the procurement of a DPR prepared by the Indian firm IL&FC, which was initially awarded the contract to develop the project. However, negotiations failed after the two sides could not agree on the price tag. Almost 90 per cent of the land needed for Fast Track has already been evacuated and 20,000 trees felled to make way for the road. Published on October 2nd, Tuesday, 2018 8:11 PM 
 San Jose, October 2 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and President of Costa Rica Carlos Alvarado Quesada have discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to bilateral relations and the two countries’ outlook of the world. Prime Minister Oli told President Quesada that Costa Rica has made commendable progress in achieving economic growth and protecting the environment and human rights, the Nepali PM said during a joint press conference after the meeting. Similarly, issues related toÂ poverty reduction, sustainable development, environment protection, and clean energy were also on the agenda of the meeting, state-owned news agency RSS reported. Earlier in the day, the First Vice-President and Foreign Affairs Minister of Costa Rica Epsy Campbell Barr, welcomed Prime Minister Oli to the Museum of Costa Rican’s Art, where the meeting with President Quesada was to take place. Following the bilateral meeting, President of Costa Rica Quesada and the first lady, hosted a banquet in honour of Prime Minister Oli, his spouse Radhika Shakya and the Nepali delegation. Published on October 2nd, Tuesday, 2018 3:37 PM 
 Nepalgunj, October 1 Tourists are now allowed to enter Bardiya National Park from Chepang area of Basgadhi municipality-1 in Bardiya district. A route has been opened for the entry of tourists from Chepang area along Kohalpur-Surkhet road section.
Mayor of Basgadhi municipality, Shalikram Adhikari, said that number of domestic and foreign tourists visiting Bardiya National Park would increase after the opening of the new route to visit the National Park. Earlier, Thakurdwara of Bardiya was only the entry to the National Park. Published on October 1st, Monday, 2018 8:54 PM 
Kathmandu, October 1 Nepal has been knocked out of the group stage of the U-19 Asia cup cricket tournament in Bangladesh.
Nepal lost to Afghanistan by 3 wickets on Monday to bow out of the tournament with a match still to play in the group stage. B Batting first after winning the toss, Nepal posted a meager total of 131 runs in 50 overs. In reply, Afghanistan surpassed the total in 37.3 overs at the loss of seven wickets. Nepal had lost all its wickets in 38.3 overs with 131 runs on the board. Rohit Kumar Poudel was the batsman to score  a significant 49 runs. Rashid Khan scored 29 and captain Asif Sheikh scored 20 runs. Afghanistan’s Ajamatullah Omarai took 4 wickets to limit Nepal to a small total.
Before returning home, Nepal will face the UAE on Tuesday. Earlier, Nepal lost to India by 171 runs. Published on October 1st, Monday, 2018 8:51 PM 
Kathmandu, October 1 Ruling Nepal Communist Party’s incharge for Sudurpashchim province, Bhim Rawal, says the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, has also agreed to name Godawari of Kailali district as the provincial capital. Amidst the opposition protest, the Provincial Assembly last week had decided to name the province Sudurpashchim and Godawari as the capital. Locals of Dhangadhi had also launched a protest against the decision, and the main opposition had extended its solidarity. But Rawal says the party protested the decision only in defence of its President Sher Bahadur Deuba. “The party tried to defend the decision of naming Dhangadhi as the provisional capital made by the Deuba government,” Rawal tells Onlinekhabar after the NCP’s provincial committee meeting today, “Otherwise, we proposed the capital with the consent of Congress.” Rawal also claims the place proposed for the capital is not a habitat of wildlife. Published on October 1st, Monday, 2018 4:34 PM 
 Janakpurdham, October 1 Chief Minister Lal Babu Raut says his government will start recruiting staffers on its own if the Centre does not send civil servants to work in the province. Chief Minister Raut, who was speaking at a programme in Janakpur, said that lack of cooperation from the central government was hampering development projects. The province needs 992 staggers for itsÂ  Industry, Forests and Tourism ministries. But currently, it has only 13, he added. “If the federal government does not send us staffers within one month, we will recruit them on our own,” said Raut adding that his government has already prepared bills to recruit temporary staffers. Raut, who was inaugurating Province 2’s Water Resources and Irrigation Division Office in Janakpur said, “This office should have been inaugurated six months ago. But it was delayed because the central government did not send staffers on time.” He alleged that the federal government did not send staffers because it wants the provinces to fail. Published on October 1st, Monday, 2018 2:29 PM 
 Gorkha, October 1 A Czech climber has gone missing on Mt Manaslu since Sunday. Expedition guides lost contact with Roman Hlavko (43) while descending from the summit. He was last seen at Camp IV by one his team members. According to Tej Bahadur Thapa Managing Director at Mount Treks Nepal Pvt. Ltd, a rescue team was deployed as soon as the climber was reported missing. The team, however, failed to make it to above Camp II as the route was hit by bad weather. He added that the rescue teams are returning to base.Â “I will have more details on why they are coming back by this evening,” added Thapa who says that the helicopter rescue attempt has been put on hold due to bad weather. “His team members said Hlavko was quite slow while descending and only realised he was missing when they reached Camp III,” adds Thapa. Hlavko was part of a 12-member team that summited Manaslu. Only three of the 12 reached the summit. Published on October 1st, Monday, 2018 1:04 PM 
Biratnagar, September 30 Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa ‘Badal’ on Sunday said the government will take action against those trying to divide the country. Talking to mediapersons at Biratnagar Airport, he asserted that the government was in favour of peace and defending country’s sovereignty. Minister Thapa is in Biratnagar to extend his condolence to the family of school teacher Khursid Alam Ansari of Harinagar in Sunsari who was killed a few days ago. Referring to a ‘significant decline’ in incidents of explosions and strikes, he claimed that the government has createdÂ  a sense of security among the people. On the rape and murder of Nirmala Pant, he said the perpetrator(s) will be booked soon as the government-formed high level probe committee has submitted its report, which will be made public after it’s discussed in a Cabinet meeting. Published on September 30th, Sunday, 2018 9:08 PM 
Kathmandu, September 30 The parents of the teenager who was raped and murdered in Bhimduttanagar in July have questioned police investigation into the case saying that the vaginal swab used for DNA testing may not be that of their daughter.’ The DNA swab reportedly obtained from Nirmala Pant’s body has been seen as the only piece of evidence of the crime as the final rites of the deceased has already been performed. The parents’ comments hours after police said that the DNA of the prime suspect in the case: Dileep Singh Bista did not match with the DNA found in the swab. Similarly, DNA tests conducted on other names linked to the case: SP Dilli Raj Bista, his son Kiran and Bhimdutta Mayor’s nephew Ayush Bista have also been negative. Published on September 30th, Sunday, 2018 5:39 PM 
Kathmandu, September 30 Kathmandu police have prepared a special plan in view of security threats during the Dashain festival. SSP Basant Lama, head of Kathmandu Police, said that 3,535 police personnel have been deployed in Kathmandu in view of the festivities. Published on September 30th, Sunday, 2018 5:26 PM 
 Dang, September 30 Nepali Congress Vice-president Bimalendra Nidhi says that party leadership is working on a proposal to amend NC’s statute.
Speaking at a press meet organised by the Press Union in Dang,Â he said the revision was necessary to run the party as per the need of the federal structure.
The leader from the main opposition further accused the Communist government of failing to come up with any significant works. He said that the people have expected a lot from the government, but it failed to deliver. Published on September 30th, Sunday, 2018 3:14 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 28 Kathmandu District Court has decided to ‘fast-track’ cases related to violence against women. The decision comes after Attorney General Agni Kharel directed the court’s public prosecutors to take steps to get speedy verdicts on cases related to sexual violence and abuse, said public prosecutor Surya Raj Dahal. Following the directive from the Attorney General, stake holders of the court (the judges, attornies and police) met to formulate the fast-track process for VAW cases. The stakeholders agreed that such cases need to be fast-tracked as the victims are under immense pressure to withdraw cases and the perpetrators get time to tamper with evidence. Published on September 28th, Friday, 2018 5:04 PM 
Balewa, September 28 The hunting season has begun at the Dhorpatan Hunting Reserve, the main wildlife hunting hub of Nepal. A total of 10 Himalayan blue sheep (naur) and six Himalayan tahr (jharal) will be hunted during September -November. Four companies have been permitted to conduct hunts. But only three have inked deals with the Department of National Parks and Wildlife Conservation to allow the 10 hunters into the reserve, said Ananath Baral, chief of the Dhorpatan Hunting Reserve Office, Baglung. As mentioned in the bid document approved by the department for this season, fees between Rs 200,000 and Rs 1.2 million are charged to hunt the Himalayan blue sheep, and Rs 100,000 to Rs 900,000 for the Himalayan tahr. Tourists from as far as the United States, Russia, and Spain have come to Nepal to hunt. The hunters are given 15 days to kill the naur and the jharal under supervision from reserve employees. Hunters charter a helicopter to the reserve as it is difficult to use theÂ road, said Bir Bahadur Thapa, an employee of the reserve. In some cases, hunters return empty-handed. Those who hunt a naur or jharal are allowed to take the trophy home. RSS Published on September 28th, Friday, 2018 4:55 PM 
     Kathmandu, September 28 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC has demanded that Education Minister Giriraj Mani Pokhrel tender his resignation. Dr KC, who organised a press conference in Kathmandu on Friday, said that the minister must step down as he was hindering the implementation of an agreement activists signed with the government during the 15th hunger strike of the orthopedic surgeon. “The minister has been found involved in distorting the provisions of the Medical Education Ordinance and hindering the implementation of agreements signed in the past,” said Dr KC. It is sad that the House has been prorogued without passing the crucial medical education legislation, said the activist who accused the ruling NCP leaders of signing agreements but not implementing the provisions of such agreements. Dr KC warned that he will go on yet another hunger strike if the government does not heed his demands. Published on September 28th, Friday, 2018 4:28 PM 
Kathmandu, September 27 Nepali Congress senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel has accused the incumbent government of trying to cover the truth of the rape and murder of Niramala Pant from Bhimdatta Nagar of Kanchanpur district around two months ago. The leader says the government has not made public the report submitted by an investigation committee intentionally. The panel led by Home Ministry’s Joint Secretary Hari Prasad Mainali had submitted the report to Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa on Tuesday. The government has not made it public till now. Speaking with journalists upon his arrival at the Tribhuvan International Airport after a trip to Europe on Thursday, Paudel demanded that the report be made public at the earliest. Meanwhile, Paudel also criticised the government for giving back the assignment of construction 1,200 megawatt Budhigandaki Hydropower Project to the ChinaÂ Gezhouba Group Company. In another context, he suggested that the party leadership revise its statute so as to incorporate the party’s cadres living abroad and their organisations. Published on September 27th, Thursday, 2018 3:01 PM 
Kathmandu, September 27 Nepal’s Department of Money Laundering Investigation says it has begun an investigation into the charges lebelled against notorious sports betting suspect Amrit Agrawal aka Nagraj. Agrawal was arrested around three months ago on the charge of carrying out betting activities during the latest editions of FIFA World Cup and Indian Premier League among other national and international sporting events. Police had arrested him after they received complaints that Agrawal defrauded people of Rs 24 million with assurances that their principal amount would triple in three months. He, however, was released on bail later by Patan High Court. SSP Dhiraj Pratap Singh, Chief of the Metropolitan Police Crime Division, says police had handed over the case to the Department after his involvement in money laundering activities surfaced during the police probe.   Published on September 27th, Thursday, 2018 2:44 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 27 Organisers have announced six teams and their marquee players for the upcoming Pokhara Premier League cricket tournament. Kings Events Pvt Ltd announced that Kathmandu Royals, Pokhara Paltans, Chitwan Rhinos, Butwal Blasters, Biratnagar Titans and Dhangadhi Blues will participate in the tournament that will begin on October 26. Meanwhile, a marquee player of each team has also been announced. Accordingly, national cricket team member Paras Khadka is in Chitwan Rhinos whereas his deputy Gyanendra Malla in Kathmandu Royals. Sandeep Lamichhane, Sompal Kami, Sharad Vesawkar and Dipendra Singh Airee have been named marquee players for Biratnagar Titans, Butwal Blasters, Pokhara Paltans and Dhangadhi Blues respectively. Published on September 27th, Thursday, 2018 2:31 PM 
Dhangadhi, September 27 Locals of Dhangadhi city in Kailali district of Province 7 have called for the shutdown of all businesses and trades in the city for one day as they launched a protest against the Provincial Assembly’s preparations to relocate the provincial capital into a ‘forest’. Dhangadhi has been serving as the provisional provincial capital for last one year. However, a committee in the Assembly on Tuesday had recommended that the capital be shifted to a forest area in Godavari Municipality of the district. Locals have claimed the area recommended for the capital city does not have sufficient infrastructures for government functioning. They say the recommendation was made to serve vested interests of members of the land mafia and forest mafia. Earlier on Wednesday, the locals led by the city’s Mayor and Nepali Congress leader Nripa Bada, staged a protest outside the Assembly building. The Assembly is currently considering the recommendation, and is expected to come up with the decision soon. Daily life of the locals has been hit hard due to the shutdown imposed in the run-up to the festive season. Published on September 27th, Thursday, 2018 11:11 AM 
Kathmandu, September 27 The government is concluding the current session of Federal Parliament tonight. As per the constitution, the President announces conclusion of the federal parliamentary session following a recommendation from the government. Accordingly, President Bidya Devi Bhandari has sent a letter to the Parliament Secretariat informing that the budget session be closed before midnight today, informs the Secretariat. House of Representatives’ Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara’s press coordinator Dilli Mahat says Mahara will read out the letter during the House meeting today. He will also summarise major activities and achievements of the session. The session had opened on May 6. Since then, the House of Representatives held 79 meetings whereas the National Assembly 61. The constitution requires the government to call the next session of Federal Parliament after less than six months from the conclusion of the previous session. The government has to call the session anytime if one fourth of the lawmakers demand so. Published on September 27th, Thursday, 2018 10:53 AM 
Kathmandu, September 26 Nepali Congress lawmaker Gagan Thapa has asked Prime Minister Oli why he is bent on awarding the multi-billion dollar Budhi Gandaki hydel to China’s Gezhouba Group. Addressing the parliament on Wednesday, Thapa said that the government should select the project’s developer through open competition. “The question I want to ask is why the developer was not selected through competition,” said Thapa referring to the recent government decision to re-award the project to China’s Gezhouba Group. Thapa’s comments come as the KP Oli government recently announced its intention to re-award the contract to the Chinese firm after it could not muster enough resources for it to be built with local resources.   Published on September 26th, Wednesday, 2018 9:51 PM 
Kathmandu, September 26 The Metropolitan Traffic Police Division (MTPD), Kathmandu has set up 13 help desks in different parts of Kathmandu Valley, with the opening of bus ticket booking in view of the upcoming Dashain and Tihar festivals. The MTPD estimates that around 2.5 million will leave the Valley for their hometowns to celebrate Dashain and these help desks are expected to facilitate the passengers. Likewise, the desks will also help police control black marketing of bus tickets. In the festival’s run-up, passengers often complain of high ticket prices charged by travel agents as well as the transport operators. To ensure that passengers are not fleeced, the MTPD will also monitor the public transport leaving the Valley. The help desks are set up at Kalanki, Swayambhu, Naya Bus Park, Satdobato, Gaushala, Chabahil, Balkhu, Dakshinkali, Koteshwor, Sundhara, Baneshwor, Purano Bus Park, Naagdhunga and Jagati. MTPD Chief SSP Basanta Kumar Panta says the passengers facing crimes, ill-treatments, harassment and arbitrary fees can contact their nearest help desk and seek for intervention of the traffic police. RSS Published on September 26th, Wednesday, 2018 3:18 PM 
 Sydney, September 26 The New South Wales state government of Australia says it has taken initiatives to gift a pair of kangaroos to Nepal*. The state government says it is positive about Nepal’s request for the gift as Nepal’s Ambassador to Australia Lucky Sherpa made her first formal visit to the state on Tuesday and Wednesday. The state governor David Hurley told the ambassador that his government would begin talks with zoo authorities in the state about gifting the animals to Nepal so as to take the bilateral relations to a new height, according to Deepak Khadka, Nepal’s Counselor General for New South Wales. “The process related to obtaining kangaroos will be quite complex. There are many other issues that would need to be considered,” Khada says quoting NSW officials, “Negotiations can take years.” Meanwhile, Sherpa adds that she also agreed with the NSW officials to partner with judicial bodies of the state, and establish sisterhood relations between Nepal’s provincial governments and Australian states. Sherpa also informs that she raised concerns about problems of Nepali students during her meetings with state officials. *The news report has been updated from its previous version after verifying information fromÂ Deepak Khadka, Nepal’s Counselor General for New South Wales. The inconvenience caused by the previous report is regretted. – Editor Published on September 26th, Wednesday, 2018 3:05 PM 
 Butwal, September 26 Students affiliated to the Nepali Congress-aligned Nepal Student Union have torched and vandalised Butwal Lumbini Banijya campus protesting the recruitment of 11 new staffers. NSU campus unit chief Suraj Chhetri and central committee member Tanka Pandey led a group of students who also vandalised the college’s Scorpio car. The students have accused the campus administration of recruiting teachers and staffers by resorting to unfair means. “The administration even resorted to leaking question papers to recruit the people they wanted,” said Pandey. “We will announce further protests if the college does not rectify its decision.” The college administration, meanwhile, said it followed the due process in the recruitment. Published on September 26th, Wednesday, 2018 1:06 PM 
  Kathmandu, September 25 The multi-billion dollar Budhi Gandaki hydropower project was re-awarded to China’s Gezhouba Group out of compulsion, says Energy Minister Barsa Man Pun. Minister Pun, who was addressing a meeting of Parliament’s Agriculture, Co-operatives and Natural Resources, said that there was no option but to call in the Chinese firm as Nepal did not have the capacity to develop such a mega project. “The project’s returns are not lucrative and that is why we cannot use public money to build the project,” said Minister Pun. “The money we collected by taxing petrol consumption is not enough to provide compensation to families living in project-affected areas,” added the minister. The minister, however, said that the Chinese company that holds the permit to build West Seti hydel will not go ahead with construction. Published on September 25th, Tuesday, 2018 8:03 PM 
Mahottari, September 25 A leopard was found dead in Gaushala of Mahottari district on Tuesday afternoon. Local Chandeshwor Singh Kushbaha said that a rotten body was found in a farm of Sukre Kami at Purano Kantibazaar of Gaushala Municipality-12. The locals informed police after seeing the dead leopard. Police have now started investigation after reaching at the incident site, said Inspector Bhola Bhatta. Published on September 25th, Tuesday, 2018 7:56 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 25 The government has finally released former minister and Nepal Communist Party (Chand Group) Khadga Bahadur Bishwokarma, who had been arrested multiple times in the last few weeks. A bench of justices Anil Kumar Sinha and Tanka Bahadur Moktan ordered the government to set Bishwokarma free after police did not heed its previous orders. The Supreme Court, in its order on Tuesday, has instructed court officials to present the document before the Ministry of Home Affairs’ secretary. Following the order, Bishwokarma, who has been charged with various cases of extortion, has finally walked free.   Published on September 25th, Tuesday, 2018 7:53 PM 
Kathmandu, September 24 After the government agreed to increase fare of public transportation, public bus entrepreneurs have decided to open advance ticket booking for upcoming Dashain festival from Tuesday. Earlier, the transporters had decided to open the booking from Saturday, but they withdrew the decision after the government did not heed their demand for fare hike. On Saturday evening, the government agreed to increase the transport fare by 10 per cent. Consequently, a meeting of the Federation of Nepalese National Transport Entrepreneurs, made the decision to open the booking from tomorrow, according to the organisation’s General Secretary Saroj Sitaula. More than half population of Kathmandu leave the Kathmandu Valley to their home districts to celebrate the 15-day festival.   Published on September 24th, Monday, 2018 3:59 PM 
New York, September 24 Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali says Nepal plans to utilise the United Nations General Assembly’s 73rd Session to present the country’s hard-earned achievements before the global community. Minister Gyawali said that Nepal promulgated the constitution to institutionalise the federal democratic republic setup achieved after an arduous struggle and successfully conducted three levels of elections, and the world needs to know about this. Gyawali said that Nepal has been raising its voice in favour of reforms in the UN. The minister also expressed confidence that the meetings and consultations Prime Minister Oli will hold with various heads of government on the sidelines of UNGA will expand Nepal’s diplomatic relations. RSS Published on September 24th, Monday, 2018 3:44 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 24 The government of Japan has provided medical equipment to Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital (TUTH)
worth one billion rupees.
At a programme organised in Kathmandu, Japanese Ambassador to Nepal Masamisi Saigo and Chief Representative of JICA Nepal Jun Sakuma handed over the medical equipment, including a digital monograph, CM X-ray machine, ventilator and anesthesia machine to Minister for Education, Science and Technology Girirajmani Pokharel. JICA first provided support to TUTH for the construction of physical infrastructure and procurement of medical equipment 1983 and for the second time in 1992. This is the third time that JICA has helped TUTH. Minister Pokharel said that the Japanese government’s support was important for Nepal’s education and health sectors. Japanese Ambassador to Nepal Saigo said his government will continue to support Nepal’s economic and social development.
Similarly, TU Vice-Chancellor Prof Dr Tirtha Raj Khaniya and Institute of Medicine Dean Prof Dr Jagadish Agrawal, also thanked the Japanese government for its support. Published on September 24th, Monday, 2018 3:30 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 24 The 18-year-old girl from Rautahat who was admitted to Kirtpur hospital following an acid attack has died, doctors involved in her treatment say. Samjhana Das and her 15-year-old sister Susmita were attacked on September 11 at their home in from Chandrapur municipality-6, Rautahat. Samjhana breathed her last at 11:30 pm on Sunday, the hospital said. Rambabu Paswan, a local aged around 50, allegedly threw acid on the Das sisters in the night while they were asleep. Investigators said that Paswan had been following Samjhana and wanted to marry her. The acid had burnt almost all body parts, including the face. Her sister Sushmita, however, is out of danger. Police have already arrested Paswan. Published on September 24th, Monday, 2018 12:07 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 23 The government on Sunday made public the report of a recent tiger census. According to the report, there are 235 tigers across the country, which is 37 more than the 2013 count. According to the report, Chitwan National Park is the biggest habitat for the big cat. It is home to 93 tigers. Likewise, Bardiya National Park has 87 adult tigers, followed by 21 in Banke National Park, 18 in Parsa National Park, and 16 in Shuklaphanta National Park. The census had started in November last year and concluded in July this year. The number of Royal Bengal tigers in Nepal was 198 according to the 2013 census. There were 120 in Chitwan, 50 in Bardiya, 17 in Shuklaphanta, seven in Parsa and four in Banke. Nepal had made an commitment to double the population of tiger from 2009 to 2022, during the St Petersburg Tiger Summit in 2010. In 2009, the number of tigers here was 121. It means Nepal is  seven short to meet the target.  Published on September 23rd, Sunday, 2018 3:44 PM 
Birgunj, September 23 Province 2 Chief Minister Lalbabu Raut says his government could not perform as good as expected because the federal government did not cooperate with the province. Raut’s statement is one more addition to the recently surfaced conflict between provincial and federal governments. Likening the provincial government to a newborn child, Raut says, “Parents should take care of the newborn. But, the federal government is treating the provincial government as an unwanted child.” Speaking at a function organised in Birgunj of Parsa district today, Raut claimed the federal government sent insufficient staff. Those sent were also had low competence and performance records, he added. “We need 2,500 to 3,000 staff,” he said, “Are not they making any conspiracy to present provincial ministers as someone who consume perks and travel on vehicles.” Published on September 23rd, Sunday, 2018 3:31 PM 
US, September 23 Ruling Nepal Communist Party’s senior leader and former prime minister Madhav Kumar Nepal suggests his party Chairman and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli speak less and listen more. Nepal, who is currently in the United States, said in a conversation with media that Oli needed to deliver results to the public at the earliest; hence he should listen to others more, than speaking his own ideas. He also complained that the Prime Minister did not consult senior leaders of the party, who already had long experiences of working in the government, about the government’s handling. Nepal, however, defended the government claiming time was not ripe yet to review the government’s performance. He said, “I am confident that the government will deliver its results very soon.” In another context, Nepal announced that he will discontinue his political life after reaching the age of 70. Nepal is currently 65. Published on September 23rd, Sunday, 2018 11:26 AM 
Kathmandu, September 23 Nepali Congress General Secretary Shashanka Koirala says his party will elect the next leadership from within the Koirala family. The party is due to elect the new leadership from the 19th general convention after two and half years. Three leaders from the family are influential in the party’s Central Working Committee now. They are the party founder BP Koirala’sÂ  youngest son Shashanka, and his two cousins Shekhar and Sujata. “We will agree to field one among myself, Shekhar brother and Sujata for the president,” the leader told his cadres at a function in Butwal of Rupandehi district on Sunday morning, adding the Koirala family’s candidate would win the leadership race thanks of the cadres’ love and wishes. Koirala claimed he learned from his recent visits to various parts of the country that most of the party cadres wished that the family would regain the leadership. In another context, Koirala said the party’s mahasamiti meeting scheduled to be held after two months would amend the party’s new statute which would also define the party’s vision for next 30 years. He demanded that the party president’s rights be decentralised. “The party cannot afford disputes. We need to move ahead with new strategies,” Koirala said, “I think the president’s rights should be centralised. The lower levels including provincial and local committees should be made more powerful.” Koirala was hopeful that the party would become the biggest party in the upcoming general elections. Published on September 23rd, Sunday, 2018 11:02 AM 
Kathmandu, September 23 The government has it has removed restrictions on the amount of fuel that vehicles can refill from Sunday morning after protesting tanker drinkers have called of the strike and resumed their work. Owing to the strike, the government had introduced different limits for two wheelers, four wheelers and short and long route public vehicles on Friday. Acting Executive Director of Nepal Oil Corporation, Sushil Bhattarai, says the consumers can get as much fuel as they want from today. Fuel stations have been directed accordingly, he adds. Meanwhile, the government-owned fuel distribution monopoly says it is planing to hire drivers on its own so as to avoid such crises in the future. Likewise, tankers of Nepal Army will also be mobilised during the time of crisis, according to Bhattarai. Published on September 23rd, Sunday, 2018 10:42 AM 
Kathmandu, September 21 The government on Friday formed an investigation team to look into the murder of a school principal in Bhutaha of Sunsari district in eastern Nepal yesterday afternoon. The team will be led by Province 1 SSP Kishor Dahal who will be joined by SP of the Armed Police Force Ramesh Kumar Thamsu, National Investigation Department Deputy Director Tulsi Prasain, Provincial Ministry of Internal Affairs and Law Undersecretary Rabindra Acharya and Administrative Officer Rajan Pandey. The Home Ministry has given the team 15 days to investigate and submit a report on the case. Meanwhile, locals and family of the victim haveÂ refused to collect the body until Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa visits Sunsari and commits to investigate the case. The Minister, however, has assigned the Chief District Officer to convince the family after meeting them. Hasid Kursid Ansari was attacked by four Indian nationals, according to police. Published on September 21st, Friday, 2018 2:27 PM 
Kathmandu, September 21 The Federal Parliament Secretariat says 10 lawmakers, who have been elected chairpersons of 10 committees in the House of Representatives unanimously, are taking their oath of office and secrecy from Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara today. Earlier, on Thursday, only one nomination was filed in each of the 10 thematic committees in the Lower House. The unanimity was possible as the ruling Nepal Communist Party commands a clear majority in the House as well as all committees, hence no lawmakers filed candidacy without its support. The NCP has fielded Krishna Prasad Dahal for Finance Committee; Pabitra Niraula Kharel for International Relations Committee; Krishna Bhakta Pokharel for Law, Justice and Human Rights Committee; Purna Kumari Subedi for Agriculture, Cooperative and Natural Resources Committee; Niru Devi Pal for Women and Social Committee; Shashi Shrestha for State Affairs and Good Governance Committee; Kalyani Kumari Khadka for Development and Technology Committee; and Jaya Puri Gharti for Education and Health Committee. Likewise, the Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal and main opposition Nepali Congress have fielded Bimal Shreevastav and Bharat Kumar Shah to lead Industry, Commerce, Labour and Consumer Interest Committee; and Public Accounts Committee respectively. Published on September 21st, Friday, 2018 12:46 PM 
Kathmandu, September 21 Nepal’s young cricketer Sandeep Lamichhane has been featured on the list of cricketers who played in most countries published by international cricket website ESPNcricinfo. The website’s The Cricket Monthly says Lamichhane is among six players who have played in most countries in past one year. He has played in nine countries, according to the website. The website has described Lamichhane’s inclusion on the list as a “heartening appearance… testimony to his talent and potential.” The list has Mohammad Nabi and Rashid Khan of Afghanistan on the top as they have played in 10 countries in past 12 months. Shoaib Malik and Shadab Khan of Pakistan, and Tamim Iqbal of Bangladesh have also played in nine countries like Lamichhane. Published on September 21st, Friday, 2018 11:58 AM 
Kathmandu, September 20 Indian rapper Aditya Prateek Singh Sisodia, popularly known as Badshah, is performing at the 14th Darbarmarg Street Festival in Kathmandu this Saturday. It will be the second stage presentation of Badshah in Nepal after a musical event organised in Kathmandu in March 2016. Jagdamba Motors, the authorised distributor of TVS two-wheelers for Nepal, will be organising the free-entry event. Badshah is renowned for his Punjabi rap songs and music. He has produced a stream of number one hit songs including “Chull”, “DJ WaleyBabu”, “DesiHiphop”, “Saturday Saturday” and “Wakhra Swag”, among many others. Meanwhile, Jagdamba Motors is offering VIP passes for the Darbargmarg 14th Street Festival to customers booking its new product, TVS Ntorq. According to the company, the first 50 customers of TVS Ntorq will get a chance to meet and greet the Indian rapper. Published on September 20th, Thursday, 2018 3:44 PM 
Kathmandu, September 20 Nepal’s Vice-President Nanda Bahadur Pun says Nepal and China are connected so strongly that they can never be separated again. Addressing the inaugural ceremony of an international fair in Chengdu of China on Thursday, Pun said histories, traditions and norms and values of Nepal and China were connected closely for ages. Chinese Vice Premier Hu Chunhua and Communist Party of China’s Sichuan Province Secretary Peng Qinghua among others addressed the function. Pun also addressed the ninth West China International Cooperation Forum today. On the occasion, he said Nepal was committed to One China Policy, and stated that Nepal would not let anti-China activities happen in the country. Vice-President Pun is in China since Wednesday. Published on September 20th, Thursday, 2018 3:06 PM 
Birgunj, September 20 Rastriya Janata Party Nepal’s presidium coordinator Mahantha Thakur says his party once tried to form an alliance with the group led by CK Raut, who has been charged of carrying out secessionist activities. Thakur, however, clarifies that the efforts did not materialise as Raut did not agree to accept the RJPN’s principles and the RJPN could not agree on the path of struggle to establish a separate country. Speaking with journalists in Birgunj of Parsa district today, the top leader of a major Madhesh-centric party said the RJPN wanted to struggle for people’s rights without violating the law. “For an alliance, either they had to move towards our thought or we towards them,” he said, “We proposed that he move towards us, but he did not agree. And, we were not fighting for a different country.” In another context, Thakur criticised the current government saying it was not clear on the party’s demand for constitution amendment. Published on September 20th, Thursday, 2018 2:45 PM 
Kathmandu, September 20 Ruling Nepal Communist Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says his recent visit to China helped Nepal and China expand the bilateral ties between them to the next level. Dahal returned home concluding his four-day visit to the northern neighbour last night. Upon arrival at the Tribhuvan International Airport, Dahal said, “I have set the objective of expanding the relations between two governments as well as between our party and the Communist Party of China. I am successful in meeting that objective.” Dahal claimed he held discussions with Chinese leaders on implementing various agreements made between the two governments. In another context, Dahal said some minor voices of dissatisfaction over the constitution should be accepted. “They are ornaments of democracy,” he said. Dahal had left for China immediately after concluding a visit to India. Published on September 20th, Thursday, 2018 11:52 AM 
Kathmandu, September 20 Last week, mayors from over three dozen cities around the world gathered in San Francisco to announce that they are taking the lead in the fight against climate change. The national governments are simply not up to the task, but that does not mean subnational governments cannot do anything, this was the message the mayors sent to their heads of state and government at the Global Climate Action Summit. The mayors, who gathered at the event under the aegis of  C40 Cities, announced that 27 cities, representing 54 million citizens and USD 6 trillion in GDP, have already peaked their carbon emissions, even while their population continues to rise and economies grow. This is an important step towards the implementation of the Paris Agreement, according to which global carbon emissions must peak by 2020, says a new C40 report presented during the event. “Climate Opportunity shows what the mayors of the world’s great cities have known for a long time: climate, public health, and a strong economy are deeply connected. We need cities around the world to implement the bold climate policies detailed in this report, if we are to avoid catastrophic climate change,” said Mark Watts, the executive director of C40. Anne Hidalgo, mayor of Paris and C40 chair, read out the names of the 27 cities at the opening of the event: Barcelona, Basel, Berlin, Boston, Chicago, Copenhagen, Heidelberg, London, Los Angeles, Madrid, Melbourne, Milan, Montréal, New Orleans, New York City, Oslo, Paris, Philadelphia, Portland, Rome, San Francisco, Stockholm, Sydney, Toronto, Vancouver, Warsaw and Washington DC. According to a C40 report, the 27 cities achieved the feat by decarbonising of the electricity grid; optimising energy use in buildings; providing cleaner, affordable alternatives to private cars; reducing waste and increasing recycling rates. One of the prominent speakers was the mayor of Dhaka. “Dhaka South City Corporation (DSCC) is taking a lot of initiatives to meet the challenge posed by climate change,” said Mayor Md Sayeed Khokon. “We have constructed several six-storey buildings to rehabilitate climate displaced people. We have also developed 70 landfills and 24 stations to manage waste. We are encouraging rooftop gardening by managing holding tax incentives.” While mayors from around the world and South Asia made several announcements to take the fight against climate change to the next level, the event did not see the participation of a Nepali mayor. This story was supported by the 2018 Climate Change Media Partnership, a collaboration between Internews’ Earth Journalism Network and the Stanley Foundation. Published on September 20th, Thursday, 2018 10:41 AM 
Kathmandu, September 19 The government is  preparing to amend existing foreign employment law, which will allow Nepali migrant workers abroad to renew their labour permits at Nepal’s missions in their host countries. They, however, can do so for maximum two times. As proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social  Security, the Cabinet has already endorsed a bill to amend the Foreign Employment Act. It is waiting to be registered in Parliament soon. The Ministry informs that both types of workers–those working for corporations and individual households–can benefit from the new provision. In particular, this law will be more useful for domestic workers who have been living illegally due to their inability to come to Nepal to renew their permit. The government had launched preparations to implement such provisions two years ago also. It, however, was not realised till date due to various reasons. Published on September 19th, Wednesday, 2018 3:41 PM 
Kathmandu, September 19 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says attempts to make Nepal a platform for experimenting various political practices in the name of people’s rights cannot be accepted. During his address at the special function organised at the Army Pavilion on the occasion of Constitution Day today, the Prime Minister said the phase of experimentation of political rights had been over in Nepal. According to him, if anything is yet to be experimented here, they are models of speedy development. He explained that discussing whether federalism was right for the country was useless now. “Discussions are natural only before making decisions. When the nation already makes a decision, the leaders have to implement it determinedly.” Oli maintained that the constitution could be amended if there were any shortcomings found. “However, attempts to make the country a guinea pig to experiment rights and make it a playground for elements with untoward objectives cannot be accepted.”   Published on September 19th, Wednesday, 2018 12:39 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 19 The Federation of Nepalese National Transport Entrepreneurs has demanded the withdrawal of the decision to hike prices of petroleum products. Issuing a press release on Tuesday evening, the Federation’s President Yogendra Nath Karmacharya called for the government to withdraw the price hike in view of the approaching festive season. “We have opened prior ticket booking from September 21 to make easier for the passengers to travel during the Dashain festival. We could not open the ticket booking if the price hike was not rolled back within 48 hours,” he warned. It may be noted that a meeting between the Department of Transport Management and Federation held on September 16 had decided to open ticket booking from September 21. RSS Published on September 19th, Wednesday, 2018 12:20 PM 
Kathmandu, September 19 Ruling Nepal Communist Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal has expressed his confidence that the Belt and Road Initiative announced by China will be significant in giving a momentum to infrastructural development in the Himalayan region including Nepal. He says the regional development project will also support development of transportation, energy, service and commerce among other sectors in Nepal so that the two neighbours can strengthen the bilateral ties. Dahal, who is currently on a visit to Nepal’s northern neighbour, on Wednesday addressed a function organised on the occasion of International Peace Day in Nanjing of China, highlighting the significance of BRI. “We have confidence that this connectivity will increase productivity, and improve technologies. It will create employment opportunities to achieve prosperity for people of both countries.” On the occasion, Dahal also appreciated China’s role in promoting international cooperation, peace, inclusive development and shared prosperity. Meanwhile, Dahal is returning home tonight. Published on September 19th, Wednesday, 2018 11:56 AM 
Kathmandu, September 18 Though the central bank of Nepal had urged all commercial banks of the country to expand their services to all 753 local units across the country by mid-July, 97 of them still do not have any such financial institutions. Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada says only 656 local units have commercial banks. Speaking at a press conference at the Ministry, he says other units do not have banks as they lack basic infrastructures to open branches. The banks now have been told to extend their services to remaining 97 units as well at the earliest, according to him. If physical expansion is not possible, the banks have been directed to explore options to provide services without establishing their branches there. Meanwhile, Khatiwada claimed the government collected Rs 120 billion revenue in the first two months of current fiscal year, which is 37 per cent more than the amount of the same period last year. Published on September 18th, Tuesday, 2018 2:53 PM 
Kathmandu, September 18 Whereas the Federal Parliament Secretariat is preparing to hold elections for chairpersons of various thematic committees in the House of Representatives this Friday, the ruling Nepal Communist Party has finalised the list of its candidates. Candidates of the NCP are sure to get elected unopposed or win the polls as the main opposition Nepali Congress is not in the position to challenge them. Likewise, the party has also convinced two Madhesh-centric parties to support its candidates as each of the two parties has got leadership opportunity in one committee. Interestingly, the Prime Minister’s party has mostly selected the lawmakers close to the party’s leadership so that the parliamentary committees cannot create much challenges in implementing the government’s decision. The party’s Standing Committee member Ghanashyam Bhusal, who is critical of party Chairman and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s policy, had expressed his desire to lead the Finance Committee. But, Oli and another Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal decided to offer the position to lawmaker Krishna Prasad Dahal, who is close to Oli. Likewise, another anti-Oli leader in the party, Yogesh Bhattarai, has been blocked from leading the powerful Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee though both the chairs had assured him the position earlier. The position has been given to Laxman Lal Karna of Rastriya Janata Party Nepal. On a positive note, the party has decided to send women to lead seven among nine parliamentary committees it is going to head. Published on September 18th, Tuesday, 2018 1:22 PM 
Nepalgunj, September 18 Rastriya Janata Party Nepal’s presidium member, Rajendra Mahato, has said that constitution amendment still remains the main agenda of his party. Talking to media in Nepalgunj one day before the country celebrates the third Constitution Day, leader Mahato said that the constitution failed to ensure the rights of Madheshis, Dalits and indigenous communities as it was incomplete. Leader Mahato further said that they were not going to observe the Constitution Day as a festival since the constitution was not timely revised. Recalling that they launched an agitation for six months, demanding constitution amendment, he said they supported the incumbent government from outside as constitution amendment was the main agenda of the party rather than joining the government. He maintained, “Supporting the incumbent government is not a crime. We supported it to make the two-thirds majority government stronger.” He informed although the RJPN held discussion with the ruling party leaders time and again over the issue of constitution amendment, no trustworthy environment was created for the same. RSS Published on September 18th, Tuesday, 2018 1:00 PM 
Kathmandu, September 18 Nepali Congress leader Prakash Man Singh says the incumbent government has not been able to do anything good for its citizens because it is run by interest groups. Speaking at a function organised on the 21st death anniversary of his father Ganesh Man Singh, one of the founders of Nepali Congress, Singh said the government was meeting interests of these groups only. Singh accused Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli of failing to walk his talks about good governance and prosperity. “He always talks about good governance and prosperity. But, people have got nothing.” According to him, the Prime Minister himself, and leaders of his party are also not satisfied with the government’s performance. Singh also vented his ire over the government for hiking the price of petroleum products as the country is approaching its greatest festivals of Dashain and Tihar. On the occasion, the party leaders garlanded the statue of deceased leader Singh. Published on September 18th, Tuesday, 2018 11:18 AM 
Kathmandu, September 17 Pampha Bhusal, a member of the House of Representatives on behalf of the ruling Nepal Community Party, has accused the judiciary of the country of failing to accept democracy and people’s verdict. Bhusal’s statement comes after Biratnagar High Court ordered police to release suspects of a notorious 33.5 kg gold smuggling case. Earlier also, the Supreme Court had forced the government to withdraw its decisions regarding political appointments. Speaking at the House meeting today, she said the court reversing decisions of the government was a serious problem. “The judiciary has not been able to accept the changes, democratic values and people’s verdict,” she said, “The government’s decisions have been frequently reversed after one day, week or month.” “I appeal to the court to accept the changes.” Published on September 17th, Monday, 2018 3:29 PM 
Biratnagar, September 17 An aircraft of Saurya Airlines experienced a bird strike immediately after it landed at the Biratnagar Airport of Morang district on Monday morning. No one has sustained any injury in the incident, but the aeroplane has been grounded. The aircraft had gone to Biratnagar from Kathmandu. Acting Chief of Biratnagar regional office of Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal, Santosh Dhakal, informs the aircraft’s left wing has been damaged. Engineers have been mobilised in repairing the aircraft. Meanwhile, four flights from Biratnagar to Pokhara have been halted following the incident at around 8:30 am today. Published on September 17th, Monday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Kathmandu, September 17 The Nepali Army says one of its personnel deployed in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in South Sudan has sustained injuries in a bullet attack on Saturday. The staffer’s identity has not been revealed. The national military organisation says the peacekeeper is undergoing treatment at a health facility in Juba, the country’s capital city, and is out of danger. The bullet fired by members of the rebelling People’s Liberation Army hit the staffer’s ankle while on the way to a company operating base after fetching water, according to the Nepali Army. Published on September 17th, Monday, 2018 11:51 AM 
Kathmandu, September 17 Following suspicions by stakeholders and media that the current leadership of national flag carrier, Nepal Airlines Corporation (NAC), was involved in irregularities in the recent purchase of two wide body aircraft, the government on Sunday appointed a new Executive Chairman at the Corporation. The Cabinet meeting held on late Sunday evening appointed Madan Kharel to the top position. Former Managing Director of the Corporation, Kharel was appointed a board member of the Corporation just two days back. According to the NAC Act, the ‘Executive’ Chairman also possesses rights and responsibilities of the Managing Director. The government, however, has not removed incumbent Managing Director Sugat Ratna Kansakar from his position. Following the decision, Kansakar has said it was an interesting twist, adding he will not resign anyway. “I have decided not to resign, and stay back as CEO with no executive power,” he wrote on Twitter, “I know there will be lots of eyebrows raised!” Published on September 17th, Monday, 2018 10:46 AM 
Kathmandu, September 17 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says international non-government agencies working in Nepal should concentrate their efforts on economic growth of most marginalised people in the society. Receiving the Lutheran World Federation’s General Secretary Martin Junge at his office on Sunday, the Prime Minister said the support provided by INGOs should help them live a secure and dignified life. On the occasion, Oli expressed gratitude and appreciation to the LWF for providing humanitarian and development support for over three decades. He appreciated the work of LWF Nepal in the care of Bhutanese Refugees and support to the host communities since 1991. In response, the guest also expressed gratitude for the government for its excellent cooperation. Stating that the LWF is committed towards migrant and refugees, he said, “We began supporting the Bhutanese refugees in Nepal from the beginning and we will continue the support till the end.” The Prime Minister was accompanied by Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada during the meeting. Earlier, Junge had held a meeting with Minister for Women, Children and Senior Citizens Tham Maya Thapa, Minister for Industry Matrika Yadav, and Province 1 Minister for Internal Affairs and Law Hikmat Karki. He is in Kathmandu since September 12. Published on September 17th, Monday, 2018 10:15 AM 
Kathmandu, September 16 Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa and Nepal Police Inspector General Sarbendra Khanal have been at odds over the suspension of five police officials that the Ministry decided on Saturday. Upon a recommendation from the probe committee formed to investigate into the rape and murder of Nirmala Pant in Bhimdutta Nagar of Kanchanpur, the Ministry had decided to suspend the officials. IG Khanal, however, has objected to the decision claiming suspending those involved in the investigation process without verified evidence does not give a right message. Khanal says it will discourage other investigators and henceÂ  directly affect the probe. Instead, he states that the officials can be expelled from the job after their involvement is proved. But, Thapa wanted to suspend the officials so as to control nationwide protests demanding a speedy investigation and legal action against the culprits, according to sources. The protesters have been accusing police of destroying the evidence. Those suspended include DSPs Angur GC and Gyan Bahadur Seti, Inspectors Ekendra Khadka and Jagadish Bhatta, and ASI Ram Singh Dhami. Earlier, then Chief of Kanchanpur District Police Office Dilli Raj Bista, was suspended. Published on September 16th, Sunday, 2018 3:12 PM 
Kathmandu, September 16 The Council of Ministers has decided to shift the Office of the Vice-President to Bahadur Bhawan, Kantipath to the Samaj Sewa Bhawan in Lainchaur of Kathmandu, where the office of Social Welfare Council is currently located. A meeting of the Cabinet recently made the decision upon a request from Vice-President Nanda Bahadur Pun. The government has decided to shift the SWC office to Bhrikutimandap. Meanwhile, officials and staff of the SWC have protested the decision. In protest, they have been putting a black flag at the gate and wearing black bands. Nepali Congress lawmaker Divya Mani Rajbhandari also objected to the decision while speaking at a meeting of the House of Representatives today, citing the building being use for social service should not be used to provide luxuries to a single person. Published on September 16th, Sunday, 2018 1:52 PM 
Kathmandu, September 16 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has claimed his government will bring a qualitative change in the country’s education sector. Inaugurating the seventh general assembly of the Fer-Western University at his official residence in Baluwatar as the University’s Chancellor, the Prime Minister alsoÂ stressed result-oriented performance of government bodies as well as other institutions. He said, “I do not look at people’s faces. What I am concerned about is results of their performance.” In another context, Oli stated that the far-western region was full of potentials and stakeholders should invest their hard work for its development. He instructed the University officials to produce required human resources for the development of the region. Meanwhile, the meeting formed two committees to investigate into controversies regarding its constituent colleges and financial transactions. Published on September 16th, Sunday, 2018 1:23 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 14 The South Asian Football Federation on Friday has published the official draw for the upcoming SAFF Women’s Championship. Nepal have been drawn in Group ‘A’ along with Bangladesh, Bhutan and Pakistan. India, the Maldives and Pakistan are drawn in Group ‘B’ of the seven-team tournament. The group division is identical to that of the SAFF Championship currently underway in Bangladesh. The event will commence on December 17, and last till December 26. The host country, however, is yet to be decided. Sri Lanka has filed a request to host the event. The Federation is considering the request. Meanwhile, the Federation says it will publish the match schedule within few days. Published on September 14th, Friday, 2018 3:25 PM 
Gorkha, September 14 The Manakamana Temple in Gorkha district of Gandaki Province, which attracts millions of visitors every year, has been reconstructed around 41 months after the 2015 earthquake. The Temple Reconstruction Committee has stated that the reconstruction of temple itself has been over recently. “Now, we are yet to pave the yard with stones and construct a retaining wall,” informs the Committee’s coordinator Narendra Babu Shrestha. Whereas the Department of Archaeology is estimating the cost for retaining wall, the Committee has already decided to bring stones for the yard from Nuwakot, according to him. Shrestha says the reconstruction cost Rs 130 million. “We have used 18 kilogram gold, which cost Rs 100 million alone.” The Department of Archaeology had provided Rs 40 million for the reconstruction. The rest was collected from the visitors. Shrestha assures that the devotees can perform puja inside the temple from the Dashain festival which will be celebrated next month. Published on September 14th, Friday, 2018 3:10 PM 
 Dhangadhi, September 14 Police in Kailali district of Province 7 say a local grocer has been found murdered inside his own house in Joshipur of the district on Thursday night. The victim has been identified as Ram Prasad Ojha (35), the owner and operator of Ojha Grocery Shop at Tikapur Road. Chief of local Bhajani Area Police Office, Inspector Rajendra Chand, suspects he might have been strangled as there are bruises on the neck. The official says police have launched an investigation. Ojha was in the grocery business for last 10 years. He had also provided Indian currency exchange facility to locals. The victim’s wife has been residing in Tikapur along with two sons. Locals have informed police that Ojha had returned home at 11 last night after attending a dance event nearby. Published on September 14th, Friday, 2018 1:51 PM 
Birgunj, September 14 Claiming his party exerted undue pressure on the local government, the Mayor of Birgunj Metropolitan City in Parsa district, Bijaya Sarawagi, has announced his resignation from the Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal. Sarawagi, who is known as a trader more than a politician, says he quit the party after the party tried to interfere with the City’s activities. He has sent the resignation message to the party leadership via WhatsApp, and is going to meet the top leaders in person soon, according to sources. The Mayor’s decision follows the decision of party’s Birgunj Municipal Committee to submit a five-point memorandum to the Mayor drawing his attention to carry out the local government’s activities as per sentiments of the Madhesh movement. Party leaders in the city say the Mayor denied implementing their recommendations about staff appointment and ‘the party’s participation’ in infrastructural development works. Sarawagi, however, says he cannot work under pressure. “Though I was elected as a member of the party, I have to be responsible for all citizens of the city. I have to give them justice.” Published on September 14th, Friday, 2018 11:22 AM 
Kathmandu, September 14 The Supreme Court on Thursday issued an order in the name of government, doctors and health professionals that emergency services including treatment of patients cannot be shut down in the name of protests and strikes. A single bench of Justice Deepak Raj Joshee issued a verdict in response to a writ filed by advocate Bishnu Timilsina on behalf of a consumer rights organisation. The organisation had moved court after Nepal Medical Association, the umbrella organisation of Nepali medical doctors, announced shutting down the services in protest of recently implemented criminal code after it introduced stricter provisions against medical negligence. The organisation, however, has already withdrawn its protests now after the government addressed to meet their demands in an amendment to the new law. Before this, the Association had frequently shut downs services except the emergency ward when they extended solidarity with the protest of medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC. Published on September 14th, Friday, 2018 11:04 AM 
Kathmandu, September 13 If the Federal Parliament endorses what has been proposed in the new public health bill, the government will be barred from covering medical expenses of its officials and political leaders when the treatments are made abroad. The Education and Health Committee in the House of Representatives on Thursday added a provision to the Bill on Public Health that the state will cover expenses at certain cases only when the treatments are carried out within the country. The bill including the Committee’s suggestions has been tabled in the House meeting today itself. The House is likely to endorse the bill from the same meeting. Nepali Congress lawmaker Gagan Thapa, also the former Minister for Health, had proposed inserting the provision in the bill during the Committee meeting. Other members of the Committee endorsed his proposal unanimously. Thapa hopes that the new provision will encourage the government to improve the condition of health facilities here. Published on September 13th, Thursday, 2018 1:55 PM 
Kathmandu, September 13 Newly appointed Chief Justice Om Prakash Mishra has assigned three cases to disputed Justice Deepak Raj Joshee on Friday. After getting appointed to the position on Monday, Mishra had denied giving any case to Joshee, who was recently declared disqualified for the position of Chief Justice by the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee, on Tuesday and Wednesday. But today, Joshee’s single bench has been given three cases. He has not been made part of any division bench. Earlier, it was reported that colleagues suggested that Joshee resign because being disqualified for the Chief Justice would also mean disqualification for the position of Justice. Joshee, however, has remained adamant against resignation. Published on September 13th, Thursday, 2018 12:05 PM 
Kathmandu, September 13 The main opposition party Nepali Congress on Thursday obstructed the meeting of House of Representatives so as to press the government to take initiatives to ensure justice for Nirmala Pant, who was raped and murdered some weeks ago, and her family. As soon as the meeting started today, lawmakers of the opposition party stood up from their chairs in protest. Then, Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara let the party’s lawmaker Dilendra Prasad Badu, to speak. Badu accused the state authorities including police of trying to delay the investigation. “The state mechanisms seem to be focused on hiding the reality than identifying the real culprits through an expedited investigation,” he said, “We have felt that the incident is taking the form of a state-protected crime.” He said the incident is turning more mysterious everyday. Published on September 13th, Thursday, 2018 11:47 AM 
 Ilam, September 13 Power supply in the hilly districts of eastern region has been disrupted for past 24 hours due to some technical glitches in the central transmission line. Electricity supply was halted in Ilam, Panchthar and Taplejung districts after the wires of two transmission lines of Nepal Electricity Authority (NEA) were disconnected. The electric poles of 33 KV supplying power from Birtamod of Jhapa to Taplejung were damaged due to landslide occurred four days ago in Kiteni of Rong Municipality in Ilam district. Likewise, the 132 KV transmission line from Padajundi-Rajduwali has also witnessed technical problems, forcing the residents of the three districts to live under darkness. Thousands of people have been deprived of power supply while hundreds of factories in the eastern districts have stopped producing their products due to the power halt. Chief of NEA Ilam Distribution Centre, Rabin Babu Ghimire, said that power was supplied from another 132 KV Kabeli corridor, but that too witnessed problems following strong storms. According to Ghimire, efforts are ongoing to fix the poles by this evening in the 33 KV electricity transmission line along Birtamod-Tapjelung. Likewise, technicians of the NEA have been trying to fix the problems of 132 KV Kabeli corridor transmission line from early morning today. RSS Published on September 13th, Thursday, 2018 11:36 AM 
Kathmandu, September 12 Undersecretary at the Province 7 Ministry of Internal Affairs and Law, Birendra KC, has agreed to return to the team formed to investigate into the rape and murder of Nirmala Pant, a teenage girl in Bhimdatta Nagar of Kanchanpur. Earlier on Monday, KC had announced the withdrawal from the investigation team citing the deadline of the team was extended unnecessarily and it would give the perpetrators a chance to run away. Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa had expressed concerns over his resignation the following day and announced to investigate into the issue. Accordingly, Minister Thapa, Home Secretary Prem Kumar Rai and Nepal Police Inspector General Sarbendra Khanal held a meeting with him to convince for the withdrawal of the decision. In a statement, KC said he decided to continue with the assignment as doing so would be more helpful to provide justice to the family of Pant than quitting. He said he and the government were together on the mission of providing justice to the victim. Published on September 12th, Wednesday, 2018 3:26 PM 
Kathmandu, September 12 Speaker of the House of Representative Krishna Bahadur Mahara has claimed the Chinese government is preparing to resume trade activities via Tatopani border point, which remains shut since the 2015 earthquake. Mahara claims he has learned about preparations being made to resume the trade via Tatopani during his recent visit to Lhasa, the capital city of China’s Tibet Autonomous Region. After returning home from the trip today, Mahara said in front of journalists at the Tribhuvan International Airport that his visit was fruitful and full of achievements. During the visit, Mahara had held a meeting with the chief of Tibet government among others to discuss bilateral issues. Leading a team of lawmakers and parliamentary staff, Mahara had flied to Lhasa last Friday. Published on September 12th, Wednesday, 2018 1:20 PM 
Kathmandu, September 12 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says Nepal is not a landlocked country anymore. Speaking at a function that discussed China’s Belt and Road Initiative in Kathmandu on Wednesday, the Prime Minister said Nepal would have an easy access to other countries of the world now as Nepal and China have agreed to let Nepal use all of the ports there to access seas. He was of the view that it was a great opportunity for Nepal as it would be instrumental in the country’s economic development. In another context, the Prime Minister reiterated that Nepal was holding discussions with both the neighbours–India and China–about extending their railway lines to Nepal. Oli said cooperation with both the countries was a must to ensure Nepal’s smooth economic development. Published on September 12th, Wednesday, 2018 1:09 PM 
Dhangadhi, September 11 The Province 7 government has proposed increasing payment for various facilities that ministers and lawmakers in the province are enjoying. This is the second time the raise is being considered since the formation of government last year. Though the government has not proposed increasing salary in itself, it proposes increasing the amount of other benefits by 10 t0 70 per cent. The Finance, Development and Natural Resource Committee of Provincial Committee has already endorsed the amendment the government proposed to the provincial law on salary and benefits of officials. According to members of the Committee, raise has been proposed in various hearings including fuel, house rent and daily allowance among others. The Committee’s chairperson Dev Raj Pathak has registered the bill for consideration in the Assembly. Published on September 11th, Tuesday, 2018 3:42 PM 
Kathmandu, September 11 Nepali national cricket team’s youth spinner Sandeep Lamichhane has been chosen for the Afghanistan Premier League (APL). The Nangarhar Cricket Squad of Afghanistan has decided to incorporate the 18-year-old leg spinner, who has already left a good impression in his Indian Premier League (IPL) debut. He is the first ever cricketer from Nepal to play the IPL. Other players in the team are Andre Russell, Mushfiqur Rahim, Najib Tarakai, Shafiqullah Shafaq, Ben Cutting, Tamim Iqbal, Mujeeb Zadran, Mitchell McClenaghan, Mohammad Hafeez, Rahmat Shah, Naveen ul Haq, Mushfiqur Rahim and Zahir Khan. As per the rule, every team playing the tournament shall include at least one associate player. The APL Twenty20 Tournament to be organised by the Afghanistan Cricket Board will be played in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on October 5-21. Lamichhane also has the experiences of playing the Canada’s Global T20 and the Caribbean Premier League also. RSS Published on September 11th, Tuesday, 2018 2:50 PM 
Biratnagar, September 11 It has been seven months since the formation of provincial government in Province 1. However, three ministers of the five-member Cabinet are yet to submit property details and make them public. Laws have it that all peopleÂ  holding public positions must make public their property details within 60 days since assuming the office. Those violating the rule include Chief Minister Sher Dhan Rai, Financial Affairs and Planning Minister Indra Bahadur Angbo and Environment and Tourism Minister Jagadish Kusayat. Only two ministers–Social Development Minister Jeevan Ghimire and Internal Affairs and Law Minister Hikmat Karki–have made their property details public within the deadline. Members of the public are curious about the property of Chief Minister Rai, who is still unmarried and lives in a residence provided by the government. Published on September 11th, Tuesday, 2018 2:13 PM 
Pokhara, September 11 The Pokhara Lekhanath Metropolitan City has dropped ‘Lekhanath’ from its name. A notice informing the removal was published in the federal government’s gazette on Monday. With this, the name of the metropolis has been changed into Pokhara only. Secretary at Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration Dinesh Thapaliya informed that the change in the name of metropolis was made as per the clause 4(3) of Local Government Operation Act. The provision of the Act has allowed the two-third majority of the municipal assembly to send the proposal for changing name or centre of the rural municipality and municipality to federal government through the province government. It may be noted that the municipal assembly held on June 26 had unanimously decided to drop ‘Lekhanath’ from the name of Pokhara Lekhanath Metropolitan City. With the recommendation of the province government, the federal government had taken the decision to that effect on August 8. RSS Published on September 11th, Tuesday, 2018 11:34 AM 
Kavre, September 11 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa says his attention has been drawn to the announcement of resignation by a member of the committee formed to investigate into the rape and murder of Nirmala Pant in Bhimdatta Nagar of Kanchanpur district. Birendra KC, Undersecretary at Province 7 Ministry of Internal Affairs and Law, on Monday had announced the resignation claiming the government decision to extend the deadline of the team might give a space for  the culprits to hide themselves from the action. He had also claimed he received serious threats from them. Speaking at a function in Kavre today, Thapa said that he was serious about the resignation. He added, “We will investigate why he quit the assignment.” In another context, a senior member of the Cabinet dismissed media reports about the Prime Minister’s plan to reshuffle the Cabinet. “The Prime Minister has already clarified and we should not believe in rumours,” a confident Thapa said, “There will not be any change in the government immediately.” Published on September 11th, Tuesday, 2018 11:10 AM 
 Kathmandu, September 10 Reconstruction of historical monuments in Kathmandu’s historical town, Sankhu, which was devastated by the April 2015 earthquake, has not gathered momentum. The reconstruction drive has almost reached four years, but it is snail paced. Though the Department of Archaeology took up the responsibility for rebuilding of the Lichchhavi-era historical monuments, it could not speed up the works. The earthquake had caused damages to 10 key monuments of Sankhu; namely: Bajrayogini Temple, Khagayogini Temple, Madhav Narayan Deuchau, Nhayayak Home (Mai’s Home), Maighar Temple (Suntole), Padmagiri Chaitya Mahabihar, Bajrayogini Basundhara Mai, Narayan Temple, Krishna Temple and Yogeswor Jyotirlinga Temple. Among them, the reconstruction of Narayan Temple, Krishna Temple and Yogeswor Jyotirlinga Temple has been complete, shared Department of Archaeology’s Information Officer, Damodar Gautam. Reconstruction of remaining seven other monuments is being coordinated by the Department as part of its multi-year plan, shared Officer at the Department, Sabita Neupane. The delay in the reconstruction of the monuments has outraged locals, said Sangeeta Shrestha, a local of Sankhu. RSS Published on September 10th, Monday, 2018 4:12 PM 
Kathmandu, September 10 The ruling Nepal Communist Party has decided to postpone its Secretariat meeting till Wednesday. Earlier, the meeting was scheduled for Sunday. But, the meeting was rescheduled for Monday as one of its two chairmen, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, returned home from India only on Sunday. The meeting, however, could not take place today as well. Instead, the two chairpersons–KP Sharma Oli and Dahal–held a meeting to decide that the Secretariat meeting will be held on Wednesday only. A Standing Committee meeting will follow the Secretariat meeting. It has been learned that both the meetings will discuss giving a final shape to the unification between former CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre into the Nepal Communist Party. Published on September 10th, Monday, 2018 1:58 PM 
Kathmandu, September 10 Attorney General Agni Kharel has blamed Nur Prasad Adhikari, the elder brother of Krishna Prasad Adhikari, for the Chitwan District Court’s decision to acquit 12 suspects of Krishna Prasad’s murder case. The Court on Sunday had decided to acquit 12 of 13 suspects. Kharel says Nur Prasad did not go to the Court to record his statements against the suspects; therefore, the court later concluded that there was not enough evidence to prove their involvement in the murder. Nur Prasad, the elder son of Ganga Maya Adhikari, who has staged repeated rounds of fast-unto-death demanding legal action against the perpetrators, was the one who filed a complaint against the suspects. However, he did not go to the court, rendering the case weak, according to Kharel. “If the person, who filed a complaint to start the case, does not go to the court, the case becomes weak,” Kharel says, “The government fought the case for his family. But, he did not cooperate with us.” Published on September 10th, Monday, 2018 11:55 AM 
Kathmandu, September 10 The government of Nepal on Sunday formed a three-member committee to investigate into the crash of a helicopter belonging to Altitude Air in Meghang of Nuwakot district. Six persons including the crew members had died in the accident on Saturday. One of the passengers, however, had survived. The Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation has formed the team consistingÂ  its Joint Secretary Buddhi Sagar Lamichhane as coordinator and Simrik Airlines’ senior captain Siddhartha Jung Gurung and Summit Air’s senior engineer Meghendra Kumar Shrestha as members. The team has been authorised to find out causes of the accident and recommend security measures to avoid similar incidents in the future. The panel has been told to submit its report at the earliest. However, no specific deadline has been fixed.   Published on September 10th, Monday, 2018 10:41 AM 
Biratnagar, September 9 A number of differences among leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party have delayed the process of deciding the name and permanent capital of Province 1. Whereas those belonging to the former CPN-UML want to name the province Koshi, the leaders who came from the dissolved CPN-Maoist Centre want the name to reflect identity of majority ethnic groups in the province. Meanwhile, the main opposition Nepali Congress wants to name the province, Sagarmatha, the Nepali word for Mount Everest. The Congress’ opinion, however, does not hold much significance in this process as the party is in minority in the Provincial Assembly. There are different opinions about the capital city as well. Chief Minister Sher Dhan Rai wants to create a new mega city named ‘Birat’ by incorporating current Dharan, Itahari and Biratnagar, and make it the capital. However, his party’s leader and Minister for Internal Affairs and Law, Hikmat Karki, is adamant that Biratnagar should be the capital. Some leaders of the party want to relocate the capital to Dhankuta. Published on September 9th, Sunday, 2018 2:59 PM 
Kathmandu, September 9 Inspector General of Nepal Police, Sarbendra Khanal, has directed the Metropolitan Traffic Police Division in Kathmandu to come up with a new plan to ensure effective traffic management of the capital city. Khanal made an inspection visit to the Division office today and directed the officials for better performance as traffic police’s role was easily noticeable by the public. Citing that traffic management in the city was growing more complex everyday, he suggested the Division make a new plan of action to ease the situation. “Traffic police should move ahead as per people’s expectations while easing the transportation system,” Khanal who once headed the Division said on the occasion. He also directed the officials and personnel to ensure gentle and police speech and activities during duty hours. During the visit, the Division’s Chief Basanta Kumar Panta had briefed the chief of Nepal Police about initiatives taken for the city’s traffic management. According to the Department of Transport Management, around 800,000 vehicles ply Kathmandu roads everyday. Published on September 9th, Sunday, 2018 2:43 PM 
Pokhara, September 9 Six persons who went missing after a boat capsized in Begnas Lake of Pokhara in Kaski district on Saturday have been found dead on Sunday. With the recovery of these bodies, the death toll in the incident has reached eight. Two persons–Krishna Kumari Bajgain and Jamuna Gaire–who were rescued from the lake were declared dead during treatment yesterday. Rescuers today found the bodies of Prachin Paudel (5), Manisha Bajgain (17), Shiva Khanal (8), Shankar Khanal (7), Ranjit Gaire (4) and Rabi Khanal (32), according to DSP Rabindra Man Gurung, spokesperson of the District Police Office. Two other persons–Sapana Khanal and Nisha Paudel–have been rescued. Meanwhile, police have commented that the lives could have been saved if they had put on life jackets. They were heading towards local Kamal Nath Kandel’s house for a celebration while the accident occurred. Published on September 9th, Sunday, 2018 2:31 PM 
Kathmandu, September 7 Indian Home Minister Rajnath Singh says he will direct officials working in the areas bordering with Nepal to make sure that Nepalis do not face any security threat from the Indian side. Singh’s assurance follows reports of robbery and other criminal cases near Nepal-India border recently. As he received Nepal’s former Prime Minister and ruling Nepal Communist Party’s Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal to his office today, Singh said his government would address complaints of Nepali citizens effectively. Earlier, Nepali workers in New Delhi had requested Dahal to raise concerns about the security threats in his meetings with political leaders and officials in India. Meanwhile, the two leaders also discussed increasing cooperation between the two countries as the ties between them are improving of late. Dahal is in New Delhi since Thursday. Published on September 7th, Friday, 2018 3:59 PM 
Kathmandu, September 7 Speaker of the House of Representatives, Krishna Bahadur Mahara, has embarked on a five-day official visit to Tibet autonomous region of China on Friday. Five lawmakers and some staff of the Federal Parliament Secretariat are also accompanying Mahara. Those included in the team are Shanti Maya Tamang Pakhrin of Nepal Communist Party, Rangamati Shahi of Nepali Congress, Uma Shankar Arbariya of Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal, Ekbal Miya of Rastriya Janata Party Nepal and Durga Paudel of Rastirya Janamorcha. The team also includes the Secretariat’s Secretary BharatÂ  Raj Gautam and some staff of the Speaker’s Secretariat. Mahara is scheduled to hold a meeting with the chief of Tibet government today itself. He will also lay the foundation stone for Nepal’s Consular Office in Lhasa. Likewise, he will address a meeting of Trans-Himalaya Belt and Road International Cooperation Forum. The team will return home on Tuesday. Published on September 7th, Friday, 2018 3:47 PM 
Kathmandu, September 7 While Kathmandu’s ruling Nepal Communist Party Chairman and former Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal is in New Delhi, former Indian Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda is currently in Kathmandu for a ‘pilgrimage’. The octogenarian leader, however, has been engaged in rounds of political meetings since Friday morning. He had arrived in Kathmandu yesterday. Leaders went to Hotel Dwarika’s, where the guest is staying, to see him. The first to meet Deve Gowda was Nepali Congress leader and lawmaker Prakash Man Singh. Singh said issues of mutual interest were discussed during the meeting. Meanwhile, Deve Gowda is scheduled to return home after offering a special puja at Pashupatinath Temple this evening. Nepal had signed the ‘notorious’ Mahakali Treaty, which many political groups of Nepal consider anti-nationalist, during the reign of Deve Gowda. Current President of Nepali Congress, Sher Bahadur Deuba, was the Prime Minister then. Published on September 7th, Friday, 2018 3:27 PM 
Kathmandu, September 7 If you are wondering how many houses are there in the Kathmandu Metropolitan City and are planning to ask the local government authority, you are likely to get disappointed. Whereas the capital city’s Mayor Bidya Sundar Shakya is under fire on social media for his alleged lack of knowledge about the number of houses, the City Office also says it does not have any data. Officials say it has just started counting the number of houses. Chief of the Construction Permission Department of the local government, Rabindra Paudel, says around 150,000 houses have been documented into an online system so far. He, however, surmises that there are around 300,000 houses in the city, adding the local government will complete collecting data about all houses in the digital system within this fiscal year. More than 1,000 houses are being added to the city every year over past few decades. Published on September 7th, Friday, 2018 2:27 PM 
Mahendranagar, September 7 Inspector General of Police (IGP) Sarbendra Khanal on Friday vowed to take action against the perpetrators involved in the rape and murder of Nirmala Pant last month. The statement comes a day after Khanal met family members of Nirmala Panta and also inspected the site where her body was found. “The criminals will be booked. An expert team is investigating the case,” said Khanal, who is in the city to take partÂ in of ‘Reduction Violence against Women and Human Rights Protection’ campaign. “The national campaign to be launched by Nepal Police in coordination with NHRC from today will help control crime,” the police chief said. IG Khanal said, “We will move ahead by coordinating with all social organisations including rights activists and civil society. The Campaign will be helpful to ensure victims’ access to justice.” Published on September 7th, Friday, 2018 1:00 PM 
Dhaka, September 6 Minister for Energy, Hydropower and Irrigation Barshaman Pun has said that bilateral cooperation in energy between Nepal and Bangladesh will benefit both the countries.
Addressing a programme organised in Dhaka, Minister Pun said the an agreement regarding energy trade has been signed between the two countries and this has begun a new chapter in bilateral cooperation. The minster urged Bangladeshi investors and energy entrepreneurs to invest in Nepal’s energy and hydropower sectors, saying that political stability has now been established in Nepal. He said, “We are ready to construct the projects in any model and ready to create environment for the same.” Published on September 6th, Thursday, 2018 9:01 PM 
Kathmandu, September 6 Two officials of the Nepal government have absconded after police suspected their hands in a forgery case. Undersecretaries at the Office of the Company Registrar, Dharma Raj Rokaya and Ganga Dhar Paudel, are suspected to have helped a racket forge various documents to transfer the ownership of Shankar Electric Industries Pvt Ltd from Indian citizen Ram Niranjan Jatiya to Jit Bahadur Magar. The Central Bureau of Investigation of Nepal Police is searching the absconding officials. It has already arrested four staff of the same office; namely: Narayan Prasad Pokharel, Umesh Man Joshi, Aashish Maharjan and Pushpa Kala Rai. So far 12 persons have been arrested in connection with the case. Police have concluded that Magar, Rajan Prasad Lamsal and Niraj Kumar Manandhar worked together to pocket Rs 700 million of the company. Published on September 6th, Thursday, 2018 3:43 PM 
Kathmandu, September 6 In yet another incident of conflict between central and provincial governments, the Social Development Ministry of Province 7 has warned of defying an order issued by the federal government’s Ministry of Health to transfer staff. Earlier on Tuesday, the Health Ministry had decided to transfer over 1,600 staff. Many of them were ordered to leave their workstations of Province 7. The provincial government must approve the decision for its implementation. But, the Health Directorate under the provincial government says the mass transfer will result in absence of all doctors at some health facilities; hence, the decision cannot be implemented. The Directorate’s Chief Dr Guna Raj Awasthi has informed about his office’s decision to the Department of Health Services. “Two auxiliary nurse midwifes are posted at a health post, but both of them get transferred. When both of them leave the workstation, there will be no one to handle parturition cases,” Dr Awasthi says, “The provincial government cannot let the staff go until there will be others to replace them.” Published on September 6th, Thursday, 2018 3:22 PM 
Pokhara, September 6 Chief Ministers of all provinces of the country, except Karnali, have gathered in Pokhara to discuss the challenges they are facing while administering their duties. This is the first time that the chiefs of provincial governments are holding a meeting to share their challenges and find out solution strategies. The meeting will also prepare grounds for the first inter-province meeting the central government is hosting soon. The Chief Ministers have planned to raise their joint concerns during the meeting. Sher Dhan Rai of Province 1, Lalbabu Raut of Province 2, Dor Mani Poudel of Province 3, Prithvi Subba Gurung of Gandaki, Shankar Pokhrel of Province 5 and Trilochan Bhatta of Province 7 are present at the meeting. Mahendra Bahadur Shahi of Karnali could not make it to the meeting. Published on September 6th, Thursday, 2018 3:05 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 5 The International Relations Committee in the House of Representatives on Wednesday directed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to furnish it with a clarification on reports about a joint military exercise among member states of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC). During a press meet organised to brief about achievements of the fourth BIMSTEC summit last week, Foreign Affairs Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali had told reporters about the joint event to be held in Pune of India later this month. The issue has been dragged into controversy after some lawmakers of the ruling Nepal Communist Party criticised the decision. Some lawmakers had objected to the event during the meeting of the panel held in Singhadarbar today. Therefore, the meeting directed the Ministry to clarify about the decision with appropriate evidence. Meanwhile, the next meeting has been scheduled for 8 am on Friday. Published on September 5th, Wednesday, 2018 3:51 PM 
  Kathmandu, September 5 NCP chair and former Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal has shortened his impending visit to India to accommodate key party meetings. The former Maoist chief leaves for New Delhi on Thursday. He was expected to return home on September 11. With the change of plan, Prachanda will now return on Saturday. According to sources, Prachanda decided to shorten his visit after the party decided to hold its secretariat meeting from September 9-10 and the standing committee meeting fro September 11-12. The meeting is expected to evaluate the government’s performance. Sources say that Prachanda feels he needs to be present during the meetings. Published on September 5th, Wednesday, 2018 2:38 PM 
Kathmandu, September 5 Minister for Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation, Barshaman Pun has left for Bangladesh to attend the Energy Week. Minister Pun, who is leading the Nepali delegation, is scheduled to address the event and hold bilateral talks on energy exchange with Bangladeshi officials. During the visit, he will also pay a courtesy call on Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and will meet the political leadership there. The delegation will return home on Saturday, September 8. Published on September 5th, Wednesday, 2018 2:30 PM 
    Kathmandu, September 4 Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister Ishwor Pokhrel, who is currently in official visit to Lebanon, met Lebanese Defense Minister Yacoub Riad Sarraf on Tuesday.
During the meeting, they discussed friendly relations between the two countries, mutual interests and Nepal Army’s contribution to Lebanon’s peace process, said DPM’s press coordinator Lokendra KC, adding that DPM Pokhrel assured the Lebanese Minister that Nepal was always ready to assist the Lebanese people for the cause of its peace.
Similarly, Pokhrel wished peace and political stability in Lebanon, while informing the Minister about Nepal’s headway to peace after a decade of insurgency.Â Lebanon was also informed that Nepal Army could provide various training to Lebanese forces.
DPM Pokhrel also invited Lebanese Defense Minister Sarraf to visit Nepal.
On the occasion, Minister Sarraf praised the role of Nepal Army reminding that Nepal Army was contributing to Lebanese peace and security since 1958. RSS Published on September 4th, Tuesday, 2018 9:08 PM 
Kathmandu, September 4 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says the BIMSTEC military drill being organised in India is not part of a military pact. PM Oli, who was speaking in Parliament, said that the military exercise is just part of regular regional military cooperation. Oli’s comments come as eyebrows have been raised over Nepal’s decision to take part in the drill. Critics argue that by participating in the drill, Nepal is sending a negative message to other neighbours and breaching the principles of Panchaseel. Similarly, Nepali soldiers have never taken part in multilateral military drills, except for ones organised by the UN. The government has also not received a nod from the President to send army personnel to the exercise. Prime Minister Oli, however, says the exercise is not intended to form a military pact. Published on September 4th, Tuesday, 2018 9:01 PM 
Kathmandu, September 4 NCP co-chair and former Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal, who is heading to New Delhi on Thursday, says issues of national interest and development cooperation are the only agenda for talks in India. Dahal, who is to visit China soon after returning from India, told mediapersons at his residence in Khumaltar that leaders of both the countries wanted to hold discussions with him and that was why he was invited for the visits. “Many people raise their eyebrows when I say I am going to India, but the only things on my agenda are issues of national interest and development,” added Prachanda. Dahal is to meet Indian External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj on Friday. He will also be meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other political leaders. Published on September 4th, Tuesday, 2018 7:38 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 4 Nepal have crashed out of the Asia Cup Qualifiers being played in Malaysia and failed to secure a place in the Asia Cup tournament, scheduled for later this month. Nepal went to their match against Hong Kong looking for a big win to keep their hopes of making it to the final of the round-robin tournament. However, it was Hong Kong that secured a huge victory against the rhinos, despite a fifer from spinner Sandeep Lamichhane. Having won the toss, Nepal elected to bat first, and were bundled out for 95 runs in 37.5 overs. Hong Kong’s veteran off-spinner Ehshan Khan claimed four Nepali scalps including that of skipper Paras Khadka. HK suffered a few hiccups chasing down the target as it lost seven wickets in the process. Sandeep Lamichhane claimed five wickets including that of skipper Anshuman Rath. Nepal had earlier suffered defeats at the hands of Oman and the UAE. The consolation wins against Malaysia and Singapore were not enough to book them a place in Asia’s premier cricket tournament. Published on September 4th, Tuesday, 2018 2:40 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 4 The Chinese government has rejected Nepal’s proposal to build the Galchhi-Kiyrong cross-border transmission line with a grant from China. Beijing has also told Nepali officials that Kathmandu most also invest in the project. According to a government source, Chinese officials have proposed that the transmission line be built along with the Kathmandu-Kyiron railway line so that power from the line can also be used to run the railway. The proposal comes two years after Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and his Chinese counterpart agreed to build the cross-border transmission line.Â  Both sides started negotiating the terms for the project after Prime Minister returned to Kathmandu. A five-member delegation led by Nepal Electricity Authority’s Transmission Line Directorate Acting chief Bajra Bhusan Chaudhary recently visited China to continue the talks. According to a source, Chinese officials, during the course of the meeting, insisted that the financing modality of the prospective project be settled before a feasibility study can be carried out. The source said that the Chinese delegation also wanted to know how much electricity Nepal expects to buy from China in the next decade. Published on September 4th, Tuesday, 2018 12:45 PM 
Rajbiraj, September 3 Finance Minister Yuba Raj Khatiwada says the government is committed to the socio-economic development of Terai-Madhesh. At a programme organised by Saptari Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Monday, Khatiwada said that development of railway line from Kakadbhitta to Bardibas would begin soon as talks with the Indian government over the project are ongoing. Khatiwada also said that preparations are on to develop the East-West Railway and the postal highway is under construction in the Tarai-Madhesh.  Revenue Secretary Shishir Kumar Dhungana said that the government was working to upgrade the customs office in Tarai-Madhes including the Kunoli Customs Office and Chhoti Customs Office. RSS Published on September 3rd, Monday, 2018 8:41 PM 
 Kathamandu, September 3 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has termed the recently concluded fourth BIMSTEC Summit successful, both in terms of hosting the event and getting desired outcomes from it. Published on September 3rd, Monday, 2018 7:03 PM 
  Biratnagar, September 3 Minister for Physical Infrastructure and Transport Raghubir Mahaseth says the government will take action against erring construction companies, regardless who owns them. Mahaseth, who was speaking to mediapersons in Biratnagar, said that an investigation will soon be launched against contractors who do not complete construction projects on time.Â “Action will be taken against the culprit as per recommendations made by the investigation,” reiterated Minister Mahaseth. The minister’s comments come days after a boat capsized on Lal Bakaiya river after it hit a pillar of an under-construction bridge in southern Nepal. Locals have accused the contractor, Pappu Constructions, of abandoning the project. Pappu has also been accused of abandoning other infra projects around the country.   Published on September 3rd, Monday, 2018 2:19 PM 
Kathmandu, September 3 Nepali Congress chief Sher Bahadur Deuba says his party supports the ongoing agitation by doctors demanding changes in some of the provisions of the new civil code. Deuba, who was speaking to mediapersons in Chitwwan on Monday, said that the government should fulfil the doctors’ demands. “The government should address the legitimate demands of the doctors,” added the Congress president. Deuba criticised the government for failing to address important issues facing the country. He said that the government had failed to book culprits involved in heinous crime. On the international front, however, the government is not doing bad, he told mediapersons. He said that the BIMSTEC Summit in Kathmandu was successful. The former Prime Minister said his party has no objection to Nepal’s participation in the BIMSTEC military drill. Published on September 3rd, Monday, 2018 11:46 AM 
 The Patan Krishna Mandir, built in 1637 by Siddhi Narsing Malla, has a lot of cultural significance. Built-in the Shikhara style and constructed using carved stone, instead of the usual brick and timber, this temple is one of the oldest stone temples in Nepal. While many pagoda style temples were reduced to rubble, in the past, the Krishna Mandir had not been damaged until the quake in 2015. The temple incurred a lot of structural damage–especially the top two floors that housed Shiva and Buddha. It was closed for visitors. “The floor above the Krishna shrine was the worst hit by the earthquake,” explains Dr Rohit Ranjitkar, who is the Program Director of Kathmandu Valley Preservation Trust (KVPT), an organisation working on cultural preservation in Patan. “The pillars were damaged significantly along with the cornerstones which were supporting the floors above.” To make sure the whole structure doesn’t crumble, KVPT, after studying the temple, decided to support the building by propping it. “Many approached us telling us to demolish the building and build it again. But doing that would make this 17th-century temple new. So we decided to restore the traditional way,” he adds. During the examination of the temple, KVPT officials realised that they had to tread carefully because the soft cornerstones had given up during the 7.8 magnitude earthquake. “The one on the north-west corner was in such a bad state it didn’t even exist.” Their first measure was to assemble the pieces which had to be extracted carefully. “The blocks were quite big–some of them more than 2 feet long. Removing them was quite hard,” he explains. After removing the cornerstones, engineers at KVPT decided to place one cornerstone on the building at a time. “It was an excellent advice because as the stones were bearing the load of the building, we needed to give lime mortar time to settle, which would guarantee its longevity.” Each cornerstone took two-three weeks to settle. “The cornerstones were weakened due to the 1934 earthquake. The people then didn’t do enough after that earthquake. This is the reason why the temple suffered structural damage and to avoid a repeat of such incidents, we were ready to be patient,” he adds. While many conservation works are done by contractors, KVPT doesn’t believe in working with them–mainly because they want to do things their own way. “We have our own team of engineers who assess the building and then come up with solutions to rebuild them.”  “Giving it to the lowest bidder will compromise the integrity of work done. This is the reason we work with local artisans of Patan and Bhaktapur who know what we are trying to achieve,” he shares. One artisan is Surya Bahadur Ranjitkar who has been working as a sculptor with KVPT for the past nine years. “I feel glad to have been given the chance to work in this building,” he adds. “It’s special because even my father who taught me this worked here as a mason before.” His role in the restoration: carve stones and give inputs to the engineers to make sure the building doesn’t fall off. “The Sikhara style buildings have stone clips on the corners. It is similar to the locks in the wooden temples in the area and that clip had to be of a particular shape that is where I gave my inputs,” he shares. After the cornerstones were settled Surya Bahadur then started his work of giving patterns to the stones. The stone carvings along the beam above the first and second-floor pillar are most notable as they narrate the events of the Mahabharata and Ramayana. “The old patterns were very complex but having worked as a sculptor for as long as I didn’t have a hard time. I took my time and feel have done a good job,” he shares. Working on a pagoda building is different from working on a sikhara building. “Rock work is not easy, it takes time and we have to be extra careful if we are to repair it properly,” they say. After 18 months, the temple is finally restored thanks to KVPT who spent Rs. 5.7 million on the project. This year, the temple welcomed pilgrims for the first time in three years. “We had to take our time. This is an important building here in Patan and we don’t want to risk human lives,” shares Dr Ranjitkar who adds that the funding for the temple came from the Gerda Henkel Foundation and the Japanese Embassy. “The foreign aid we received was quite helpful. It helped rebuild this Durbar Square in a way it was before the earthquake. Yes, most of the temples will be new, but at least the people will relate to it,” he shares. Published on September 2nd, Sunday, 2018 3:54 PM 
 Kathmandu, September 2 Nepal defeated Singapore by four wickets in their fourth match of the ongoing 2018 Asia Cup Qualifier held today in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Making 151 runs in the first innings, Singapore had posted a target of 152 runs to Nepal. The Rhinos in the second innings met the target in 28.1 overs by losing six wickets. For Nepal’s victory, Anil Kumar Sah made 43 runs, Dipendra Singh Airee 33, Gyanendra Malla 29, Subash Khakurel and Sagar Pun contributed 14 each while captain Paras Khadka managed 11 runs. Elected to bat first after winning the toss, Singapore had made 151 runs in the 42 overs at the loss of all wickets. Chetan Ramchandra Suryawanshi contributed 60 runs for Singapore, while Anish Paraam 31 and Karthikeyan Subramanian 20. In bowling, Nepal’s Sandeep Lamichhane and Lalit Narayan Rajbanshi took three wickets each while Sompal Kami and Basant Regmi claimed two each. Earlier, Nepal defeated Malaysia by 19 runs in the previous match on Saturday. They, however, lost their first two matches to Oman and UAE. RSS Published on September 2nd, Sunday, 2018 3:49 PM 
Janakpurdham, September 2 The Internal Affairs and Law Minister of Province 2 government, Gyanendra Yadav, on Sunday picketed the Nepal Rastra Bank office in Janakpurdham after the office remained open though the provincial government had declared a public holiday for today. Yadav has picketed the office along with some other cadres. The government last week had declared the holiday on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami. The federal government, however, has not given any holiday today. Therefore, the NRB had decided to open the office as it is under the federal government. But, Yadav argues that all government institutions located in the province should abide by the decision of the provincial government as well. Earlier last week, he had padlocked the NRB office after it defied the holiday order on the day of Janai Purnima.   Published on September 2nd, Sunday, 2018 3:36 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 31 On the same day that seven member states of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) signed an memorandum of understanding for grid interconnection, Nepali officials and experts have suspected the implementation of the agreement. They claim the most powerful country among the signatories, India, might become a challenge in smoothly implementing the agreement, that if executed properly gives benefits to countries like Nepal. Some officials of the Ministry of Energy in Kathmandu say the Indian government’s intercountry power trade directive will block the implementation as it mentions that the electricity it imports has to be produced with at least 51 per cent Indian investment. Therefore, former president of Independent Power Producers Association Nepal, Khadga Bahadur Bista, says the MoU is contradictory. Meanwhile, the government has requested India to revise its directive, according to the Ministry’s spokesperson Dinesh Ghimire. The New Delhi government is positive about the request, but it is yet to be decided, he informs. Published on August 31st, Friday, 2018 3:26 PM 
Kathmandu, August 31 The Federal Parliament Secretariat says it has postponed elections scheduled to choose chairpersons of 10 committees in the House of Representatives. Secretary at the House of Representatives, Gopal Nath Yogi, says the elections have been postponed till the next notice. He has not clarified why the elections were postponed. However, it has been learned that the Secretariat has decided to wait for an agreement among key parties to share the positions. Earlier, the elections were scheduled to be held on Sunday. Candidates had to file nominations for the positions tomorrow. Meanwhile, three of four committees in the National Assembly have already elected their chairpersons unanimously. However, no one filed nominations to lead the fourth panel, Sustainable Development and Good Governance Committee. Published on August 31st, Friday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Janakpur, August 31 Ongoing campaign ‘Educate Daughters, Save Daughters in Province 2 has been formally launched. Province 2 Chief Minister Lalbabu Raut formally inaugurated the campaign amidst a programme today at the Office of Chief Minister and Council of Ministers. Provincial ministers, Speaker and State Assembly members were also present on the occasion. Speaking at the programme, CM Raut appealed to all to lend support and ensure participation to make the campaign a success. Only physical infrastructure development was not sufficient to achieve the holistic development, he said, expressing his hope that the campaign would be a cornerstone in bringing about social transformation in the entire nation. As he said, the province government was receiving positive feedback from all quarters. Meanwhile, the province government has decided to give a public holiday on September 2, Sunday on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami festival. RSS Published on August 31st, Friday, 2018 2:57 PM 
 Mahottari, August 31 Police have apprehended 28 people from various areas of Mahotari district accusing them of stealing electricity. “The District Police Office made the arrest after the request of Nepal Electricity Authority,” informed DSP Khagendra Bahadur Khadka. The DPO in coordination with the Armed Police Force arrested those who had used hooks to steal electricity in Jaleshwor and other areas of the district. The arrested will be set free after they pay a certain penalty to the NEA. The NEA stated that it has started an initiative to make sure people do not steal electricityÂ in the future. Published on August 31st, Friday, 2018 10:47 AM 
Kathmandu, August 30 Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wazed, who arrived in Kathmandu this morning to take part in the fourth summit of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Economic and Technical Cooperation (BIMSTEC) is planning to return to Dhaka tomorrow morning, few hours before the declaration ceremony. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs says the concluding ceremony will begin at 1:45 pm tomorrow. However, Wazed is scheduled to leave for Dhaka at 11 am. Multiple sources including Bangladeshi media have reported that the Prime Minister decided to shorten her trip considering political protests ongoing in her country. Earlier, Waged had told Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli that she would not be able to attend the meeting. However, she later changed the mind after Oli insisted she would come, but shorten the trip, according to sources. Before wrapping up her visit, Wazed is scheduled to hold a bilateral meeting with Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. She has already met PM Oli today. Published on August 30th, Thursday, 2018 3:30 PM 
Kathmandu, August 30 Nepal lost their second game in the Asia Cup Qualifier against the UAE by 78 runs in Kula Lumpur of Malaysia on Thursday. They had lost their first match to Oman by seven wickets on Wednesday. Batting first, the UAE posted a formidable score of 254/9 in the allotted 50 overs. Ashfaq Ahmed (45) and Chirag Suri (65) gave the UAE a solid start putting up a 70-run stand for the opening wicket. Suri continued to build the innings with the middle-order before being run out. Adanan Mufti (57*) then pushed the score past 250 after putting a 42 run stand with the last two wickets. Nepal’s bowling looked poor for another game with only Sandeep Lamichhane taking wickets at regular intervals. He finished with 4 for 24 out of his allotted 10 overs with no other bowlers helping him. In reply, Nepal were all out for 176 after they kept losing wickets at regular intervals. They lost opener Gyanendra Malla (4), Paras Khadka (16), and last game’s topscorer Sagar Pun (3) cheaply. Valiant efforts by Subas Khakurel (50) and Dipendra Singh Airee (40), who put up a 58 run stand, went in vain as the UAE kept on taking wickets at crucial intervals. Ahmed Raza was the pick of the bowler for the UAE with figures of 4 for 37 in his 10 overs. In other matches today, Hong Kong beat Singapore by five wickets and Oman defeated Malaysia by two wickets. Subsequently, Nepal’s chances to qualify for the Asia Cup are slim. As it stands, the UAE and Oman are tied at the top with 6 points. Published on August 30th, Thursday, 2018 3:17 PM 
Kathmandu, August 30 Chiefs of delegation from all six member states of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation have landed in Kathmandu. On Thursday, prime ministers of India, Bangladesh and Thailand–respectively, Narendra Modi, Sheikh Hasina Wazed and Prayut Chan-o-Cha arrived in the capital. Leaders of Bhutan, Sri Lanka and Myanmar are already in Nepal since yesterday. Meanwhile, they are scheduled to pay courtesy calls on President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli separately before the inauguration of the fourth BIMSTEC summit. Wazed paid a courtesy call on and held a bilateral meeting with Oli at Hotel Soaltee, the summit venue, this morning. The summit will be inaugurated by Oli after 3 pm today. Published on August 30th, Thursday, 2018 12:50 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 30 The telecommunication regulatory body of Nepal says the number of mobile phone users in the country is 34 per cent higher than the total population of the country. This happens when a single person uses more than one telephone services from multiple companies. The Nepal Telecommunications Authority says there are more than 38.3 million mobile phone users as of mid-July this year.Â Meanwhile, the total number of users of all kinds of telephone services is 39.2 million. The Authority, however, does not have any record on how many of them are actively using the phone numbers. Nepal’s estimated population is 28.5 million. Of the total mobile users, 36.2 million use GSM phones whereas 2.6 million use CDMA ones.    Published on August 30th, Thursday, 2018 12:35 PM 
Okhaldhunga, August 30 Four persons of a same family were killed when a landslide buried their house in Khimti, Melung Rural Municipality-8 of Okhaldhunga district. The house of Purna BahadurÂ  Rai was buried in the landslide on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as Purna Bahadur Rai (50), his wife Dhan Kumari (45), and their son Aashish. The fourth victim is Purna Bahadur’s sister Mitra Maya, according to the District Police Office. Published on August 30th, Thursday, 2018 12:09 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 29 A Bajura-based journalist, who was covering a local fair in Bajura, has been missing for the last four days, authorities say. According to police, Tej Bahadur Khadka, who had gone to Bajura’s Budhi Nanda to cover the Janai Purnima fair, last week, was last seen on August 26 near Chhapre Lek. The journalist, based in Doti, works for Budhunanda FM. He had embarked on the journey on August 22. The area he went missing is at an altitude of 4,1oo meteres and it takes four hours to reach there from the nearest human settlement. Police said a missing complaint was only filed on August 27. Police have deployed three teams to look for the missing man. Federation of Nepali Journalists has called on the government to seriously investigate the case. It has expressed concern that Khadka has not been found even after four days. The federation has appealed to rights activists, members of the civil society and the media to help look for Khadka. Published on August 29th, Wednesday, 2018 3:52 PM 
 Oman beat Nepal by seven wickets in the Asia Cup Qualifier held in Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday. Batting first Nepal posted 221 runs on the board in the allotted 50 overs. Sagun Pun top-scored for Nepal with 83 runs while opening batsman Gyanendra Malla also contributed with 43. Pun’s 92-run partnership with Aarif Sheikh who scored 36 runs helped set the challenging target. In reply, Oman cruised to a win with two overs to spare. Nepal’s bowling looked quite poor with strike bowler Sandeep Lamicchane ending the game without a wicket. But he ran out two Omani batsmen. Captain Paras Khadka was the only Nepali bowler who was amongst the wickets. Oman’s batsmen Khawar Ali and captain Zeeshan Maqsood put up an unbeaten 77 run stand which helped them win the game with 12 balls remaining. This was the 4th time in a row that Nepal lost to Oman in a 50-over match. Meanwhile, the UAE clinched a comfortable 215-run win against Singapore while the hosts Malaysia shocked Hong Kong by three wickets. Nepal must now win all the remaining matches to make it to the final of the tournament and have a chance to qualify for the 2018 Asia Cup. As it stands the UAE top the table and are followed by Oman and Malaysia. Published on August 29th, Wednesday, 2018 3:37 PM 
 Indonesia, August 29 Nepal has finally won a medal at the ongoing 18th Asian Games. The Paragliding team won the silver medal in the Cross Country Paragliding event on Wednesday. The Nepali team was only 27 points away from winning the country’s first gold medal ever at the Asian Games. Nepal accumulated 11,364 lost out to first place Japan who had 11,391 points. This is Nepal’s second silver medal in Asian games having won one in the 1998 Asian Games in Bangkok. Published on August 29th, Wednesday, 2018 2:54 PM 
Pokhara, August 28 Gandaki province’s Chief Minister Prithvi Subba Gurung has called on chief ministers and governments of six other provinces to stay united and jointly fight against the central government so as to secure rights of the provinces as envisioned in the constitution. Gurung says the federal government also has a mindset that it should not provide rights to the provinces unless they create some pressure and put in difficulties; hence all the provincial government should come together to raise their voices. In particular, Gurung is not satisfied with the KP Sharma Oli-led government as it restricted rights related to generating financial resources and managing staff. “The time has come to jointly make the federal government realise that it needs to implement the constitutional provisions at the earlier,” Gurung said while addressing a function in Pokhara today, “If there is some shortcoming in the constitution, it has to be corrected.” “The government always retains some executive power. We are also a government,” he added, “But, we have not felt so in practice.” Published on August 28th, Tuesday, 2018 4:37 PM 
 Pokhara, August 27 A teenager was found dead in the Fewa Lake on Monday. Sushmita Lamichhane,18, who lived near the Peace Stupa in Pumdi Bhumdi, Pokhara was found dead in the lake. A search was carried out after her bag and mobile phone were found on the bank of the lake in Damside, according to spokesperson of the District Police Office, Rabindra Gurung. The body has been sent to the western regional hospital, Pokhara for a post-mortem while further investigation into the case is underway. Published on August 27th, Monday, 2018 9:22 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 27 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says members of regional organisations such as Saarc and BIMSTEC could not make the groups active. PM Oli, who was talking to editors of major media outlets in the country on Monday, said that Nepal should make the most of the BIMSTEC grouping as it could not help re-vitalise the South Asian grouping. Oli’s comments come as Kathmandu prepares to host the heads of government of Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Sri Lanka Thailand and Myanmar for the BIMSTEC Summit. “BIMSTEC cannot work the way it has worked in the last 20 years,” said the Prime Minister adding that it was time the grouping took momentum. He indicated that BIMSTEC cannot replace Saarc as Nepal was one of the founding members of the grouping. “We haven’t been able to revitalise Saarc. It could not happen with our lone efforts. During my visit to India–even during Modiji’s visit to Nepal– I have been been saying that we need to revitalise Saarc.” PM Oli told the editors that Nepal’s priority in BIMSTEC is related to regional connectivity. Published on August 27th, Monday, 2018 9:10 PM 
 Kanchanpur, August 27 The curfew order imposed on Bhimdutta Nagar, Kanchanpur, in the wake of violent protests against the rape and murder of a teenager in the city last month. The curfew, which was clamped in the city since the death of a protester in Saturday, has been lifted until 6 pm on Monday, officials said. District officials who initially planned to re-impose the curfew order from 12 pm, said they changed their mind after the situation normalised in the city. Nirmala Pant (13) was raped and murdered on July 26. Locals were outraged when police presented a ‘mentally retarded’ man as the main suspect in the case. Kanchanpur District Police chief Kuber Kadayt said that the curfew order will be re-imposed after 6 pm on Monday. City residents, who remained indoors for the last three days, have come out of their homes and normal life has resumed. Published on August 27th, Monday, 2018 2:13 PM 
Kathmandu, August 27 Prime Minister KP Oli has ordered the Ministry of Home Affairs to submit a clarfication to his office explaining why former Maoist Combatant Lenin Bista was not allowed to go to Thailand last week. This comes two days after 27-year-old Bista, who was heading to Thailand to attend a youth conference on peacebuilding, was not allowed to leave Nepal. Immigration officials had told him they were under orders to not allow him to go past the immigration check. Prime Minister Oli, who was talking to editors of various media outlets, said that the ministry has been given 24 hours to submit the clarification. Oli said that he was aware that the restriction on Bista amounted to a restriction on his personal freedom of movement. Published on August 27th, Monday, 2018 12:49 PM 
  Kathmandu, August 27 Nepal’s only international airport, TIA, will shut for two-and-half hours on Thursday morning, in view of the arrival of dignitaries attending the fourth BIMSETC Summit in Kathmandu, officials said. The airport will be closed from 8-10:30 am on Thursday–the time slot allotted for the heads of government to arrive in Kathmandu. During the closure period, members of the general public will not be allowed to enter the airport premises and regular flights will be halted. The airport, which is open for 21 hours a day, will, however, remain open for 24 hours during the course of the summit. Officials said the extra hours were added to compensate for delays caused by the shutdown. This is not the first time that the airport is being closed to welcome heads of governments coming to Kathmandu. In November 2016, the airport was closed for 45 minutes to provide security for theÂ then Indian President Pranab Mukherjee. Similarly, in November 2014, the airport was shut for a few hours as the city hosted the SAARC Summit. Published on August 27th, Monday, 2018 11:59 AM 
Kathmandu, August 26 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba on Sunday has accused the government of trying to protect the guilty of rape and murder of Nirmala Pant in Bhimdutta Nagar of Kanchanpur district. Addressing a meeting of the House of Representatives today, the main opposition leader and former prime minister said the state resorted to suppression of the peaceful protest launched after that just because it wanted to protect the guilty from the legal action. “A question has been raised about where we are heading as a state after seeing the delay in the probe into Kanchanpur incident,” he questioned, “Where shall we go for justice if the state itself protects the perpetrators.” He flayed the government for using the force to contain the protest, which resulted in the death of a child among protesters on Friday. Published on August 26th, Sunday, 2018 2:19 PM 
Kathmandu, August 26 Ruling Nepal Communist Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal has requested the United States to increase investment in Nepal, assuring that the government will ensure security of the investment. Receiving the US Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, Alice G Wells, at his residence in Khumaltar of Lalitpur this morning, Dahal said Nepal needed the Americal support for development of infrastructures, tourism, hydropower and agriculture among other sectors. He also thanked the senior official for the support Nepal received from American people and government for promulgation and implementation of the constitution and the conclusion of peace process. In response, the Assistant Secretary told Dahal that successes achieved in Nepal’s peace process and constitution promulgation would be a model for other countries of the world, according to Dahal’s Secretariat. She also added that the US was interested to support Nepal in cyber security and disaster control among others. Published on August 26th, Sunday, 2018 12:16 PM 
Kathmandu, August 26 Traffic police in Kathmandu have decided to impose the odd-even rationing system for traffic management of the city on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday this week. Accordingly, vehicles with odd number plates can ply roads of the Valley on Wednesday and Friday because these are odd dates as per the Nepali calendar. Only even numbered vehicles will operate on Thursday. The decision was made to avert possible traffic congestion in the city as Kathmandu is hosting the fourth summit of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) on Thursday and Friday. The decision will be applied to all private and government vehicles including two-wheelers, according to the Metropolitan Traffic Police Division. Published on August 26th, Sunday, 2018 11:52 AM 
Kathmandu, August 24 The second wide body plane of Nepal Airlines Corporation, ‘Makalu’, ,ade its first commercial flight to Bangkok on Friday. The airbus aircraft (A330-220) with call sign ‘9NALZ’Â will fly to Bangkok thrice a week as per the old flight schedule for the time being. NAC received delivery of the aircraft on July 26. NAC Spokesperson Rabindra Shrestha said NAC has plans to operate flights to South Korea, Japan, and Saudi Arabia after completing necessary processes. NAC has been operating flights to New Delhi, Bangalore and Mumbai of India, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Thailand, Doha and the UAE. Published on August 24th, Friday, 2018 8:42 PM 
 Kanchanpur, August 24 An indefinite curfew has been clamped yet again in Bhimdutta Nagar, Knchanpur, after a boy died in police firing on Friday afternoon. Curfew had been lifted in the city early in the morning after protesters demanding justice for teenager Nirmala Pant, who was raped and murdered last month, agreed to allow a high-level committee to investigate the case. However, tension ran high in the city in the afternoon after NCP leader Bhim Rawal accused the Nepali Congress of politicising the murder. Chief District Officer Tara Nath Adhikari has urged locals not to venture out of their home during the curfew. Pant was found dead on June 26. Locals say they are not satisfied with police investigation into the case. Published on August 24th, Friday, 2018 8:31 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 24 A former Maoist combatant who was heading to Thailand has been barred from leaving the country. Lenin Bista, a former child soldier in the Maoist army, was heading to Thailand when immigration officials told him he cannot embark on his journey. According to a Ministry of Home Affairs sources, the government barred him from going to Thailand as officials learnt that Bista was going to make a presentation on child soldiers at a programme. The source said that Bista was stopped because he was planning to show Nepal in bad light. However Bista told Onlinkhabar that he was heading to Thailand to participate in a programme on youth in conflict and peace-building. “I was told that there were orders from higher officials to not let me go.” He was told that he had to seek permission from the government to take part in the event.   Published on August 24th, Friday, 2018 6:37 PM 
 Kanchanpur, August 24 District Administration Kanchanpur has lifted the curfew imposed in Mahendranagar after protests in the wake of the rape and murder of 13-year-old Nirmala Panta on July 26 turned violent. The curfew was lifted at 5 AM on Friday after condition started to settle down. The curfew was imposed after the situation got out of hand on Thursday where four protestors were injured after the police opened fire on them. DSP Kuber Kadayat informed onlinekhabar that after observing that the situation seemed to be in control the police along with the District Administration decided to lift the curfew. “Mahendra Nagar is quiet today as there has been no demonstration which is why we lifted the curfew,” added DSP Kadayat. The scene on Thursday was quite different from what it is today. The protest started early yesterday morning but today the situation seems to be under control. DSP Kadayat also mentioned that vehicles are on the road and shops are also open. The government has replaced the CDO and SP and the home ministry has also formed a probe panel which will be lead by Joint Secretary and Director General of Department of Prison Management Hari Prassad Mailani. But no talks have been held yet. DSP Kadayat said he is personally talking to the victim’s family and the protestors to come to an agreement. Published on August 24th, Friday, 2018 10:51 AM 
 Kathmandu, August 23 Nepal Forum of Environmental Journalists (NEFEJ) has stated that its serious attention has been drawn towards some of the provisions of Civil and Criminal Codes that came into effect on August 17. NEFEJ has categorically expressed concern concern over Section 293 of the Criminal Code, which criminalises recording and listening to conversations between two or more people without consent of the persons involved; Section 294, which prohibits disclosure of private information of public persons; Section 295, which prohibits photographing a person outside the public space without consent; and Section 306, which criminalises satire. The concerned bodies are urged to correct the legal devises that aim to curtail the press freedom. It has stated that the Constitution of Nepal has guarantees freedom of speech and expression which needs to be reflected in the law-making process. “National laws should not contradict with the provisions of Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political rights,” NEFEJ said, expressing solidarity with the Federation of Nepali Journalists’ campaign that aims to press the government to pay heed to this concern       Nepal Forum of Environmental Journalists (NEFEJ) has stated that its serious attention was drawn over some provisions of Civil and Criminal Codes that came into effect on August 17.
Issuing a press statement, the NEFEJ has mentioned that the provisions narrowing the essence of national and international legislations would not be acceptable.
The NEFEJ has categorically showed concern: Section 293 of Criminal Code criminalizes recording and listening to conversations between two or more people without consent of the persons involved; Section 294 prohibits disclosure of private information of public persons; Section 295 prohibits photographing a person outside the public space without consent; and Section 306 criminalizes satire.
The concerned bodies are urged to correct the legal devises that aim to curtail the press freedom. It has stated that the Constitution of Nepal has fully guaranteed freedom of speech and expression which needs to be reflected in the law-making process.
“National laws should not contradict with the provisions of Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political rights,” the NEFEJ said, expressing solidarity to the Federation of Nepali Journalists’ campaign that aims to put pressure on the government to pay heed to this concern Published on August 23rd, Thursday, 2018 7:26 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 23 Thursday’s meeting of the Constitutional Council has unanimously nominated Justice Om Prakash Mishra for the post of Chief Justice. Mishra was nominated to the post after acting Chief Justice Deepak Raj Joshee appointment to the job was not approved by the Parliamentary Hearing Committee. Mishra was the second justice in terms of hierarchy when Joshee was nominated to the post. The Public Hearing Committee cancelled Joshee’s appointment after irregularities were found in his academic certificates. According to a source, Prime Minister KP Oli, Leader of the Opposition Sher Bahadur Deuba, Speaker Krishna Bhadur Mahara, National Assembly chair Ganesh Timalsena, Deputy Speaker Shiva Maya Tumbahamfe and Law Minister Bhanu Bhakta Dhakal were present during the meeting. Published on August 23rd, Thursday, 2018 7:18 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 23 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa says the government will form a committee to investigate the rape and murder of a 13-year-old girl in Bhimdutta Nagar, Kanchanpur. Thapa, who was addressing lawmakers from Province 7, said that the government has taken the case seriously and a committee will soon be formed to investigate the crime, The lawmakers have demanded that the government form a hi-level committee to look into the incident. Home Minister Thapa told the lawmakers that a decision would be made public later on Thursday. The lawmakers, meanwhile, have also demanded that the government not interfere in spontaneous public protests demanding justice for Pant. Published on August 23rd, Thursday, 2018 3:02 PM 
Kathmandu, August 23 The government has decided to redefine the duties and responsibilities of the Foreign Employment Promotion Board as well as give it a new name. Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security Gokarna Bista says the board will now be transformed into ‘Foreign Employment Management Board.’ Bista, who was addressing member lawmakers of Parliament’s Consumer and Labour Affairs Committee, said it was no longer the government’s job to promote foreign employment. The minister said that the government wants to create an environment where young people can find jobs within the country. “Foreign employment is the last resort for many Nepalis. The sector needs a management board rather than a promotion board,” he told lawmakers. He added that the government has already prepared a proposal to restructure the board, which has been assigned to provide compensation to the kin of Nepalis who die working abroad. Similarly, the board also organises different awareness campaigns for prospective workers. Published on August 23rd, Thursday, 2018 2:50 PM 
 Kanchanpur, Aug 23 Protests over the rape and murder of a teenager in Bhimdutta Nagar, Kanchanpur in far-west Nepal reached its fourth day on Thursday as the local administration clamped an indefinite curfew in the city. The demonstrations started on Monday, a day after district police presented a ‘mentally retarded’ man as the chief suspect in the Nirmala Panta Murder Case. Locals have been demonstrating in various areas of the town such as Bhansi, Suda, Lalpur, Sisaiya, Daiji, Champhapur among others demanding that the police arrest the murderers of 13-year-old Nirmala Panta. She was found in a sugarcane farm on July 26. Demonstrators have been burning tyres in the major thoroughfares of the town. Locals markets and schools have been shut due to the demonstrations while the transportation services have been obstructed.
Security personnel have been mobilised in large numbers to avert the untoward incidents, according to the District Police Office, Kanchanpur. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up in the town as demonstrations growing intense with each passing days, said Senior Superintendent of Police Bikram Chand. A team led by SSP Chand has been mandated to look into the murder case. Published on August 23rd, Thursday, 2018 2:35 PM 
  Kathmandu, August 22 Supreme Court Chief Justice nominee Deepak Raj Joshee, who went on leave following controversy surrounding his appointment to the top post, has hinted that he still wants to return to his job. Joshee, whose nomination was rejected by Parliament’s Special Hearing Committee on August 4, had sought a 15-day leave following the episode. He was expected to resign following the conclusion of his leave. However, Joshee has sought an additional six-day leave from the President’s Office. Sources say that Joshee could have sought up to 13 days of additional leave. Joshee’s move suggests that he still feels he is the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court even as the SC has named Om Prakash Mishra as the acting Chief Justice. Sources say that the Constitutional Council is set to convene on Thursday and will name either Mishra or Justice Cholendra Shamsher Rana as the new Chief Justice. Published on August 22nd, Wednesday, 2018 2:53 PM 
 Mahendranagar, August 22 Locals of Bhimdutta Nagar (Mahendra Nagar) continued demonstrations on Wednesday demanding justice for a 13-year-old who was allegedly raped and murdered last month. Agitating locals continue enforced a shutdown in Bhimduttanagar Bazaar accusing police of failing to investigate the recent murder of a 13-year-old in the city. Nirmala Pant, a resident of Bhimdutta-2, was found dead in a sugarcane farm along the Mahendranagar-Ultakham road on July 26. According to reports, the deceased was allegedly raped by her murderers. The protest started on Tuesday, a day afterÂ District Police Office organised a press conference to say that Dilip Singh Bista, 41, of Bhimdutta -19, was the main accused in the crime. However, locals are not convinced as they claim he is mentally challenged. They have accused the police of trying to frame him in the case. Civil society organisations and human rights defenders have been mounting pressure on the police to reveal the facts behind the heinous crime. Published on August 22nd, Wednesday, 2018 2:37 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 22 The much hyped Kalanki Underpass in Kathmandu has been closed a week after authorities allowed vehicular movement on the newly built structure. The Ring Road Improvement Project closed the underpass for traffic on Wednesday morning, Kalanki Police Inspector Bimal Thapa told Onlinekhabar. “The underpass was opened only for a few days to test how vehicles move about,” he added. “There is still some construction work that needs to be carried out for the underpass to become fully functional,” explained Thapa. Project officials say the underpass, which had eased traffic on the Ring Road, will be re-opened after a week.  After its closure, a long line of vehicles has been seen in the area. Construction work for the 800-m pass began in 2016.  Although the initial target was to finish the project in six months, it took the builders two years to complete it. Published on August 22nd, Wednesday, 2018 1:05 PM 
Kathmandu, August 21 The government plans to carry out complete repairs of the runway at Tribhuvan International Airport (TIA), the country’s lone international airport. The Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation says the airport will remain closed for 10 hours every day. According to Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation, Rabindra Adhikari, upgrading of the runway within a year is a top priority for the government. Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal (CAAN)’s director general Sanjeeb Gautam says repair works will begin on mid-February and the airport will remain closed during repair hours (from 10:00 pm to 8:00 am). It is expected to take four months to pave the runway with fresh asphalt. In the second phase, the restoration of a taxiway will be carried out. The runway developed cracks in 2014 and the 2015 April earthquake made the situation worse. The runway areas, especially from the 02 point up until 1,600 meters from the point, have been largely damaged. According to TIA, repair and maintenance works would be started from southern part of the airport as it has become weak. Published on August 21st, Tuesday, 2018 8:55 PM 
Biratnagar, August 21 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has argued that although the local units are authorised to impose tax, rates should be proportionate to the people’s capacity to pay.
Addressing mediapersons in Biratnagar on Tuesday, PM Oli asserted that Nepal’s taxation rate was one of the lowest among in the world.
He clarified that the taxes on land and business generate sources of income for the city and federal units.Â The Prime Minister further said that false information should not been disseminated among the people after misinterpreting issues of revenue and tax. Furthermore, the PM spoke of the need to end the trend of staging protest over any move of the government. Published on August 21st, Tuesday, 2018 8:37 PM 
Kathmandu, August 21 Industrialist Binod Chaudhary says the government has failed to utlise the money it raises from the people as tax. Lawmaker Chaudhary, who was speaking in Parliament, added that there was no point in collecting money from the people if the government did not spend the money on the sector it promised to spend. “Taxes should be determined based on the capacity of the taxpayer. A person involved in a business should not be taxed in different ways. The people should feel that their tax is being utilised,” he added. Chaudhary said that tax collected in the name of social security for the last nine years remain unused. “The Rs 33 billion collected from hard-earned money of the people remains unutilised,” he said. Similarly, Rs 23 billion collected as tax on petroleum products also remains unused. Published on August 21st, Tuesday, 2018 5:19 PM 
 Bhimdutta Nagar, August 21 Agitating locals have enforced a shutdown in Bhimduttanagar Bazaar (Mahendra Nagar) in western Nepal, accusing police of failing to investigate the recent murder of a 13-year-old in the city. Nirmala Pant, a resident of Bhimdutta-2, was found dead in a sugarcane farm along the Mahendranagar-Ultakham road on July 26. According to reports, the deceased was allegedly raped by her murderers. The protest comes a day afterÂ District Police Office organised a press conference to say that Dilip Singh Bista, 41, of Bhimdutta -19, was the main accused in the crime. However, locals are not convinced as they claim he is mentally challenged. They have accused the police of trying to frame him in the case. Civil society organisations and human rights defenders have been mounting pressure on the police to reveal the facts behind the heinous crime. Published on August 21st, Tuesday, 2018 12:57 PM 
Kathmandu, August 20 The Nepal national cricket team have left Kathmandu for Sri Lanka en route to Malaysia to play the 2018 Asia Cup Qualifier scheduled to be held from August 29 to September 6. During they stay in Sri Lanka, the Nepali squad will play practice matches with three local clubs before departing for Malaysia. Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara bade farewell to the team amidst a progrmme here today. Wishing the team all the success in the tournament, he said he was full confident that the team would qualify for the 2018 Asia Cup by winning the Qualifier. The team’s main coach Jagat Tamata said though monsoon caused some problems in the training for the team, practice matches the team would be playing in Sri Lanka would obviously help improve the team’s performance. Team captain Paras Khadka promised to give their best in the tournament and leave no stone unturned to make the country proud. In theÂ  Qualifier, Nepal will face Oman on August 29, UAE on August 30, host country Malaysia on September 1, Singapore on September 2 and Hong Kong on September 4. The top two countries will contest in the final match while the winners will make their journey towards the 2018 Asia Cup cricket tournament to kick off in the UAE in mid-September. Nepali cricket squad comprise captain Paras Khadhka, vice-captain Gyanendra Malla and players Basant Regmi, Anil Kumar Shah, Binod Bhandari, Dipendra Singh Airee, Karan KC, Lalit Bhandari, Lalit Narayan Rajbanshi, Aashif Sheikh, Rohit Kumar Poudel, Sagar Pun, Sandeep Lamichhane, Sompal Kami and Subash Khakurel. Pradeep Airee, Kishor Mahato, Sunil Dhamala and Sushan Bhari are in the substitution role. Sandeep Lamichhane who is playing domestic league in the West Indies would not play in the practice match. He will directly go to Malaysia from West Indies to play in the qualifying match. RSS Published on August 20th, Monday, 2018 4:02 PM 
Kathmandu, August 20 A group of vegetable brokers, traders and vendors on Monday obstructed a market monitoring team of the government at Kalimati Fruit and Vegetable Market in the capital. They also took under control representatives of the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies and the Department of Supply Management and Consumer Protection for some minutes. After that, the monitors informed Minister Matrika Yadav and police for protection. Yadav himself went to the site along with Secretary Chandra Kumar Ghimire to settle the issue. According to a member of the monitoring team, Madhav Timilsina, they were freed only after police intervened in the situation and chased away the strong mob of brokers. The Ministry had deployed a monitoring team after media reported excessive hike in the price of vegetables due to presence of brokers at multiple levels. Meanwhile, police arrested a leader of traders, Bharat Khatiwada, for obstructing the monitoring team. Published on August 20th, Monday, 2018 3:45 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 20 Development Committee in the House of Representatives has directed the government to impose tax on Facebook advertisements among other paid contents published on social media. Whereas the government is under fire from members of the public, stakeholders and lawmakers for expanding the tax range of late, the Committee today issued the directive that advertisements on Facebook, Twitter and other social media be brought under the jurisdiction of tax system as their market is expanding everyday. Ministry of Communications and Information Technology and Ministry of Finance have been directed to regulate the social media-based advertising market. Meanwhile, the Committee also directed the Ministry of Communications to submit a report within next 15 days about improvements in Nepal Telecom’s services including 4D coverage and optical fibre network. Published on August 20th, Monday, 2018 2:43 PM 
Kathmandu, August 20 Department of Roads under the Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport has dropped the plan to construct a tunnel road under the Tribhuvan International Airport after the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation as well as the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal rejected the plan. Nonetheless the plan itself was also developed without any serious study or discussionÂ  with stakeholders. The government had been allocating budget for the project for past two years, with a hope that it would help police ease traffic congestion around Koteshwor area. However, aviation officials told the Department that constructing the road would keep the only international airport of the country in danger. Likewise, the project is not technically and financially feasible, according to them. “The issue is settled now. We are not going to construct any tunnel there,” Minister for Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari says. Published on August 20th, Monday, 2018 10:49 AM 
Kathmandu, August 20 Police say they have found the body of former ambassador Keshav Jha at his own residence in Babarmahal of Kathmandu on Monday morning. A mark of knife has been seen in his body and the door was locked while the body was recovered; therefore his death is suspicious, according to investigators. His body is yet to be sent for the postmortem. SSP Basanta Lama, Chief of the Metropolitan Police Range in Kathmandu, say police are investigating into the case. Jha had served as Nepal’s Ambassador to France once. He had worked in Nepal’s foreign service for around 34 years.     Published on August 20th, Monday, 2018 10:25 AM 
 Kathmandu, August 19 The Supreme Court has refused to issue an interim order to reinstate Nepal Telecom Managing Director Kamin Rajbhandari, who was recently relieved of her position by the government. Rajbhandari, who moved court following her dismissal last week, claims that she was removed illegally and urged the court to reinstate her to the post. A bench of Justice Cholendra Shamsher Rana, however, issued a show-cause, to the government asking it to clarify its stance on the case.Â Rajbhandri was dismissed from her post by a meeting of the Cabinet last week saying that her performance as the head of the country’s biggest telecom company was not satisfactory. Published on August 19th, Sunday, 2018 3:50 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 19 Minister for Industry, Commerce and Supplies, Matrika Yadav, has requested lawmakers to lift legal restrictions on the use of land procured by Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC) to build storage facilities. At a meeting of the Industry, Commerce, Labour and Consumers Interest Committee of the House of Representatives on Sunday, the minister said that restrictions put in place following disputes in the procurement processes are hindering the NOC’s plans. “The NOC needs the removal of restrictions on the land it had purchased for the specific purposes,” he said, pledging to discontinue the ‘syndicate’ imposed by petrol pumps and tankers involved in the distribution and transportation of petroleum products. A lottery system, if necessary, could be practiced to make the process of granting permission to operate tankers and pumps transparent.
According to him, efforts are on to remove misconducts long existing in the industrial sector.
Prior to this, the committee members drew the attention of ministers towards the issues of embezzlement of funds in the purchase of plots of land by the NOC. RSS Published on August 19th, Sunday, 2018 3:43 PM 
 Kavre, August 19 Kavre District Court has remanded former minister and Netra Bikram Chand-lend Maoist splinter group spokesperson Khadga Bahadur Bishwokarma (Prakanda) in custody for three more days. Bishwokarma, who was earlier arrested on charge of extortion, was released on Saturday. However, he was re-arrested on the court premises for allegedly attacking a crusher plant in Kavre. The top Maoist leader was presented before the district court on Sunday. Police had requested seven days to investigate the case. However, the court granted only three days for investigation. Published on August 19th, Sunday, 2018 3:29 PM 
Kathmandu, August 17 Two student unions close to the Nepal Communist Party have decided to merge at the earliest. The two organisations have finalised the model of their unification as well as the new name. All Nepal National Free Students Union and AllÂ  Nepal National Free Students Union-Revolutionary were sister organisations of then CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre respectively. After their mother parties announced the unification, the student bodies were under a pressure to merge. The two parties had mobilised a joint task force to facilitate the unification. The task force comprising Rabindra Adhikari, Ramesh Malla, Nabina Lama and Ranjit Tamang finalised the structural model today. According to the agreement, the new body will have 299 members in the central committee. The unified organisation will take the name of former UML’s student union. In Nepali language, the ‘Union’ will be spent with a long vowel in the beginning. Published on August 17th, Friday, 2018 3:12 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 17 The government is preparing to amend the existing foreign employment law, which will effectively restrict rights of recruitment companies and protect aspiring migrant workers’ rights. Whereas the companies will be barred from employing and mobilising individual agents, they will be allowed to open branches at the district level if they want to expand their business. The government is currently mulling over the bill to amend the existing Foreign Employment Act. If the Federal Parliament endorses the bill as it is now, the ‘manpower agents’ who are blamed for their deception will lose their legal right to practise the business. Till the date, the government has been distributing licences to suchÂ  agents after collecting a collateral of Rs 200,0000. Stakeholders had been lobbying for such a provision since a long ago. On the other hand, recruitment companies owners had also demanded the provision of mobilising agents as they vilified the image of their business.   Published on August 17th, Friday, 2018 3:00 PM 
Kathmandu, August 17 Minister for Federal Affairs and General Administration Lalbabu Pandit has clarified that the government is not making any preparation about halting the recruitment of new staff for next few years as some media reported earlier. The Minister says the government will not interfere with the jurisdiction of Loksewa Aayog (Public Service Commission) as envisaged in the constitution, clarifying reports that the recruitment process is being halted are just rumours. Earlier, it was reported that the government was mulling over halting the process for next one to three years as it was yet to calculate the exact numbers of staff required at different levels after the country adopted the new federal structure. In another context, he said foreign visits made by elected officials of provincial and local governments were illegal as the constitution has given the responsibility of maintaining diplomatic ties to the federal government only. Published on August 17th, Friday, 2018 2:43 PM 
Kathmandu, August 17 The government of Nepal has decided to send Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali to New Delhi of India on Friday to attend the funeral of former Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Vajpayee, 94, had passed away in New Delhi on Thursday and his funeral has been scheduled for today. Meanwhile, the main opposition party Nepali Congress is sending Vice-President Bimalendra Nidhi to the funeral. Vajpayee, a veteran leader of India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, had served as the Prime Minister thrice. His premiership lasted for mere 13 days in 1996 and just 11 months in 1998-99. He, however, enjoyed the full term from 1999 to 2004. Published on August 17th, Friday, 2018 11:09 AM 
     Kathmandu, August 16 Leaders of the Nepal Medical Association, who are protesting various provisions of the new civil code set to come into effect from tomorrow, have put off their protests for two weeks. The association, which had earlier called on members to submit their licenses to the central office, had threatened to go on strike if its demands were not met. The association has demanded that a provision in the new law, which can be used to put a doctor behind bars for five years failing to save a patient, be amended. The association wants the law to make provisions for an expert committee to examine cases of medical negligence. The protest was put off after the government assured the doctors that the said provision would be amended in two weeks. The doctors have threatened to return their licenses to the medical council if their demands are not met. Published on August 16th, Thursday, 2018 7:37 PM 
Kathmandu, August 16 National Reconstruction Authority CEO Sushil Gyewali, who was recently re-appointed to the post, says he wants to complete post-quake reconstruction work on time. Talking to mediapersons after assuming office on Thursday, Gyewali said he will implement lessons learnt in the past and prepare new plans for the reconstruction campaign. Gyewali, who was appointed to the post by the Oli government in 2016, said that it was his team that laid the foundation for reconstruction in the country. “We will deploy the people with the help of local governments,” said Gyewali. NRA Secretary Arjun Bahadur Karki, who welcomed Gyewali, said the authority plans to complete the reconstruction of private houses within this year. Published on August 16th, Thursday, 2018 7:25 PM 
    Kathmandu, August 16 Ministry of Tourism has proposed that police personnel be deployed to rescue mountaineers and tourists who fall sick or are injured during their expeditions. The proposal, prepared by a government-formed committee to look into allegations of ‘fake rescue’, says that tourism entrepreneurs, who intentionally make tourists fall ill and call in rescue choppers to claim hefty sums from insurance companies, will be tried on organised crime charges. According to sources, three chopper companies, six hospitals and eight travel agencies are suspected to have been involved in the scandal. However, Nepal Police does not have the required helicopters nor the rescuers to carry out operations. Officials say a plan is being drafted to boost the capacity of the police in this regard. The proposal says that police personnel should be given the reigns of rescue missions from this September, but that seems to be far-fetched. Published on August 16th, Thursday, 2018 4:01 PM 
Kathmandu, August 16 The main opposition party, Nepali Congress, has accused the incumbent KP Sharma Oli-led government of discouraging the involvement of private sector in the national economy. The party’s Central Working Committee member Ram Sharan Mahat, who led the Ministry of Finance several times over past three decades, says such a policy of the government would not lead the country towards prosperity. “The government made people dream economic prosperity, but could not create an environment needed for that,” Mahat said while speaking at a function organised by the party’s Policy and Training Academy in Kathmandu today, “The governments at central, provincial and local levels have haphazardly expanded the reach of taxation.” He questioned, “How can the private sector get attracted after you increase the tax?” Mahat suggested the governments at three levels have a strong coordination to take the country towards prosperity. Published on August 16th, Thursday, 2018 11:10 AM 
Surkhet, August 16 In a bid to garner foreign investment for infrastructure and social sector development, Karnali provincial government has made a proposal seeking support from the federal government in carrying out a coordinating role. A couple of weeks ago, the provincial government had sent a proposal with a decision of the Council of Ministers seeking right to make negotiation and agreements with donors to raise foreign aid and investment in the development areas based on the province needs. Minister for Financial Affairs and Planning Prakash Jwala had presented the proposal before the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister in Kathmandu. The proposal has put the federal government’s role merely as a witness of the signing of memorandums of understanding for partnership. The proposal also has demanded income tax waiver to domestic and foreign investors for 10 years. The provincial government has explored the opportunity to seek foreign funding keeping in mind the shortage of budget allocated by the federal, provincial and local governments for infrastructure development, said Minister Jwala. Likewise, the provincial government has already sent an official proposal to the federal government to increase grants and aids for executing Karnali Infrastructure Development Programme and multi-year plans, he added. The provincial government has taken the initiative to tap resources to materialise its slogan ‘Prosperous Karnali, Happy Karnali People’ which was presented alongside the budget and programme for this year. RSS Published on August 16th, Thursday, 2018 10:51 AM 
Kathmandu, August 15 Minister for Labour, Employment and Parliamentary Affairs Gokarna Bista says the government is holding negotiations with the Qatari government to make sure that Nepali migrant workers need not spend a single penny to go to the Gulf country for job. The Minister’s response comes at the time when the government has failed to implement the ‘free visa and free ticket’ provision it had earlier introduced. Speaking at a meeting of House of Representatives’ Industry, Commerce, Labour and Consumer Welfare Committee today, Minister Bista claimed the negotiations reached the final stage and an agreement in this regard would be signed soon. Though the Minister did not divulge details of the new model being introduced, officials of the Ministry say the government will establish an ’employment village’, where Qatari employers communicate their demands for workers and the Nepali government side find appropriate candidates. There is be not any role for recruitment agencies in this model as employers and potential workers can directly meet. The officials, however, are not sure when the new provision comes into effect. Published on August 15th, Wednesday, 2018 3:26 PM 
Kathmandu, August 15 Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Health Upendra Yadav has clarified that the proposed safe motherhood law does not seek the father’s identity for registration of a child’s birth. He, however, maintains that the law still requires the mother to clearly express why the child’s dad cannot be identified. Responding to lawmakers’ concerns on provisions of the Safe Motherhood and Reproductive Health Rights Bill in the House of Representatives meeting today, Yadav said the mother could register her child’s birth in the way she wanted. He said the government did not have any intention to disrespect women’s dignity in proposing this provision. Earlier, the lawmakers had commented that the bill could not include all women of the country. The bill was introduced to let women enjoy the right to safe motherhood as envisioned in Article 38 of the constitution. Published on August 15th, Wednesday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Kathmandu, August 15 Former minister and spokesperson of Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led Communist Party of Nepal, Khadga Bahadur Bishwakarma, has confessed that he colleges millions of rupees as donations from various traders and industrialists. He was arrested from Kathmandu last week for allegedly forcing businesspersons to pay him hefty donations. Police who interrogated him during an investigation say Bishwakarma accepted that he demanded financial, physical and moral support from various people. “I did not collect donations, but just assistance,” he reportedly told police, “This is the policy of our party.” Police investigation found that he was involved in collecting donations worth Rs 75.6 million in total in past two years. Meanwhile, police are producing him before the Supreme Court on Thursday in compliance with an order of the court that it issued in response to a habeas corpus writ. Bishwakarma’s son Narendra Bahadur had filed the writ.   Published on August 15th, Wednesday, 2018 2:56 PM 
Kathmandu, August 14 Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Gyawali says his government does not have plans to provide Nepali passports to non-residential Nepalis. Fielding lower House lawmakers’ questions on the draft Passport Act, Gywali said that the although NRNs have economic and social rights in Nepal, the prevailing laws do not give them political rights. He said that it was too early for him to comment on the issue. Gyawali’s comments come as commentators say that the government should be willing to provide passports if it is willing to provide citizenship. Gyawali said, “Let the new Citizenship Act be passed first, then we can debate about passports for NRNs.” Published on August 14th, Tuesday, 2018 5:05 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 14 A ceremony was organised in Kathmandu to mark the 71st Independence Day of Pakistan. The national flag of Pakistan was hoisted on the occasion where Pakistani Ambassador to Nepal, Mazhar Javed. The envoy alsoÂ read out messages of congratulations sent separately by Pakistan’s President Mamnoon Hussain and Prime Minister Nasir Ul Mulk on the occasion. SAARC Secretary General Amjad Hussain B Sial, Pakistani nationals living in Kathmandu and the embassy employees joined the ceremony. Pakistan achieved independence from Great Britain on August 14, 1947, a day ahead of neighbour India, which celebrates its independence on August 15 every year.   Published on August 14th, Tuesday, 2018 4:16 PM 
   Kathmandu, August 14 Parliament’s finance committee has orderedÂ the government to cancel all forms of dual taxation levied on the people. Taxes imposed by the federal and local government have increased the economic burden of people, and this needs to stop, said the members of the committee during a meeting on Tuesday. The committee has ordered the Office of Prime Minister and the Council of Minister, Ministry of Finance, National Planning Commission and the National Natural Resource and Finance Commission to coordinate their activities so that the people do not face dual taxation. The order comes amid reports that the local governments in different parts of the country have raised tax rates and imposed new taxes on the people. There have also been instances when people have paid taxes to both the central and local governments for the same purpose. The committee has also directed local governments not to hike tax rates and demanded that the Ministry of Finance take the initiative to resolve the situation. Published on August 14th, Tuesday, 2018 2:39 PM 
Kathmandu, August 14 Leaders ofÂ  the ruling Nepali Communist Party say they have finalised the composition of seven provincial and 77 district committees of the party as they divided key positions between leaders belonging to then CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre. The formation of such committees will conclude the merger of two biggest communist parties of Nepal that was announced in May. Though central level structures were unified immediately after the announcement, the party is yet to realise the unification at provincial and local levels. According to party insiders, the unification process will wrap up in next few weeks now. As per an understanding made among the leaders, four of seven provincial committees will be led by former UML leaders. Likewise, the UML side will lead around 44 of total 77 district committees. It has been learned that leaders of the two dissolved parties will get almost equal share in six of seven provinces. In Province 1, however, those belonging to the former UML side will have an apparent domination. The party’s General Secretary Bishnu Paudel says leaders to be represented in the committees have been selected on the basis of their qualification, competence, need in the party and seniority, notwithstanding whether they were in former UML or Maoist Centre. Leaders at the district level have been authorised to finalise their composition on themselves, according to the party leader Bishnu Rijal.   Published on August 14th, Tuesday, 2018 10:19 AM 
Kathmandu, August 13 Nepal’s young leg-spinner Sandeep Lamichhane has secured the 217th position in the  MRF Tyres ICC ODI Player Rankings that the international cricket governing body published on Monday. The ICC attributed his position to his finishing with four wickets in two recent matches against the Netherlands in the Netherlands. The matches played on August 1 and 3 were Nepal’s first one day international matches. Meanwhile, Sompal Kami (229th) and Gyanendra Malla (236th) have been declared leading batsmen for Nepal by the ICC. They had notched a half-century each in the Amstelveen series. The ICC has clarified that Nepal and the Netherlands will qualify for a full ranking after playing two more matches each. Published on August 13th, Monday, 2018 3:22 PM 
Kathmandu, August 13 The incumbent government has made public its major achievements made in its first five months. Chairman of the then CPN-UML KP Sharma Oli was appointed the Prime Minister of Nepal on February 15. The end of monopoly of transport syndicates, action against gold smugglers, restriction in public spending and foreign visits of officials, end of dillydallying in infrastructure development works among others have been mentioned as achievements of the government. Likewise, the government has claimed it has found a longterm solution to the problem of inundation, and launched an onsite study for the possibility of waterways. The government collected more revenue than the target and development spending has increased, adds the government. It has also listed upgrading of Narayangadh-Muglin road, ongoing construction works to open the Simara-Bardibas railway track, ongoing construction of an arch bridge over Trishuli in Muglin and beginning of Naadhunga tunnel road also as achievements. The government claims it replaced 90 ‘tuin’s (rope bridges) in the period. Published on August 13th, Monday, 2018 3:01 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 13 The government has proposed introducing a new law to deal with economic transactions based on the internet. The new law will regulate various forms of digital money and digital wallets including online payment platforms like eSewa, IME Pay and Khalti. For that, the government is preparing to scrap article 103 of the existing Nepal Rastra Bank Act. Meanwhile, the new law draft has proposed formulating a National Payment Board under the leadership of Nepal Rastra Bank governor. The Board will be authorised to introduce and implement laws required in the sector. Independent service providers have to get permission from the central bank to launch such services. Banks and financial institutions which are already recognised by the central bank, however, can provide these services without obtaining any permit. The central bank has to fix an amount of the paid-up capital to begin the service. The bill has already been registered at the Parliament Secretariat to officially begin the new law formation process. Published on August 13th, Monday, 2018 1:07 PM 
Kathmandu, August 13 A trade union leader on Sunday reportedly assaulted an official of the Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration at Singhadarbar, the country’s central administrative complex. The Vice-Chairman of a government servants’ union, Jeevan Bhandari, hit with his fists Joint Secretary Rishi Acharya at his office premises yesterday, according to sources at the Ministry. It has been learned that Bhandari resorted to the attack after the official did not endorse his recommendation for the transfer of one of his colleagues. Meanwhile, an angry Bhandari also broke a vase at the Ministry as he was trying to hit the official with a chair, the sources claim. Published on August 13th, Monday, 2018 12:54 PM 
Chitwan, August 13 Officials of the Chitwan National Park say they are sending two one-horned rhinoceros–one male and one female–to Kathmandu on Tuesday as they are scheduled to fly for China on Thursday. The rhinos constitute the second pair of four rhinos that Nepal is gifting the northern neighbour. Information Officer Nurendra Aryal at the National Park says all preparations have been over to see off Solti (two-year-old male) and Mitini (a female of the same year). They will leave their habitat at 5 pm tomorrow. Earlier, the Government of Nepal had sent the first pair of rhinos to China on July 12. The officials of the Park say that there will be no problem in translocation of the rhinos since they are familiar with the humans. Like before, the Park veterinarians, technicians and assistants will be sent this time too together with the rhinos. During his visit to China two years ago, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had pledged to gift two pairs of rhinos. Published on August 13th, Monday, 2018 12:43 PM 
 Kanchanpur, August 12 Indian authorities have barred vehicles from crossing the Sharda Barrage bridge after flow in the swollen Mahakali reached alarming levels following incessant rain in the last 24 hours. According to local officials the flow in the Mahakali was recorded at 100,000 cc/sec, following the rain on Saturday night. “Indian authorities have barred vehicles from crossing the road since 12 pm on Sunday,” officials said.Â  Indian officials have been closing the dilapidated bridge every time the flow crosses the 100,000 cc/sec mark. Area Police Office Gadda Chauki’s DSP Dikar Dev Pant said that only two-wheelers and pedestrians will be allowed on the bridge for some time. At 12 pm on Sunday, the flow in the river was recorded at 8,000 cc/sec. Panta said that residents living in Bhimdatta Municipality on the banks of the Mahakali have been told to remain alert. District Police Office Kanchanpur’s DSP Gyan Bahadur Sethi said that security forces in the area have also been put on alert. Published on August 12th, Sunday, 2018 3:12 PM 
Kathmandu, August 12 Road officials say they have expedited the construction of Nepal’s first network arch bridge with an objective of making it ready for operation by Dashain festival in October. Chief of the Kathmandu Valley Road Expansion Project, Deepak KC, says works on one side of the bridge over Dhobikhola River in Anamnagar is about to complete within weeks and works on the other side will begin immediately after that. All electricity wires have been covered underground on the other side so that the deadline could be met, according to him. The Project is constructing two of such bridges in Kathmandu. The second bridge will be constructed over Bagmati River in Tinkune. KC claims the Board chose this design as it is more beautiful and stronger than traditional designs of bridges. Published on August 12th, Sunday, 2018 12:58 PM 
Kathmandu, August 12 Nepali Congress says it will flow its flag half-mast for next three days to condole the death of its former leader Bharat Shamsher Rana. Rana, 90, had breathed his last in Kolkata of India on Saturday. Though he was the leader of main opposition party in Nepal’s first Parliament in 1959, Rana had joined the party later, after the beginning of Panchayat Era. The Congress party says it will shut down its offices across the country on Monday in mourning. Likewise, a condolence assembly will be organised on the 13th day of his departure, on August 22. The loss caused by Rana’s death to the party is reparable as he had contributed to promoting the message that democracy can change the society, the party said in a statement today. Published on August 12th, Sunday, 2018 12:43 PM 
Kathmandu, August 10 Nepal’s former Prime Minister and ruling Nepal Communist Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal is scheduled to visit both neighbours of the country next month. Sources at Dahal’s secretariat says he will leave for the Indian capital of New Delhi on September 7. During the trip, he will hold meetings with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi among others. Modi himself is coming to Nepal for the BIMSTEC Summit in the final week of this month. Recently, Indian Ambassador to Nepal Manjeev Singh Puri had handed over an invitation to Dahal for the visit. Likewise, the former Prime Minister to go to Beijing, the Chinese capital, for a visit in the final week of September, according to his secretariat. He is likely to hold meetings with top political leaders including President Xi Jinping there as well. Dahal, however, is yet to get an official invitation for the trip. Published on August 10th, Friday, 2018 3:57 PM 
Kathmandu, August 10 The formal process of appointing the new Vice Chancellor of National Academy of Medical Sciences (NAMS) has not begun yet as Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Health Upendra Yadav proposed different names. Incumbent Ganesh Gurung’s term had expired on Thursday. Prime Minister Oli, also the Chancellor of the Academy, has formed a three-member committee under the leadership of Yadav, who is ex-officio Pro Chancellor of the body, to recommend a name for the top position. However, he has also piled pressure on Yadav to pick a person of his choice. Sources say PM Oli wants to appoint Dr Bhagawan Koirala or Dr Jagaeshwor Gautam for the position whereas Yadav wants to give the responsibility to Dr Sita Ram Chaudhary or Dr DN Shah. On the other hand, some staff including doctors of the Academy and Bir Hospital have demanded that people already involved in the Academy be appointed to the position. If their demand it heeded, Koirala and Shah will be out of the race. Published on August 10th, Friday, 2018 3:39 PM 
Kathmandu, August 10 A team of Nepali officials is visiting various places of India in the third week of September to study operation of ships in various rivers there. The visit will be a part of Nepal government’s preparation to launch the service in some rivers of Nepal as envisioned by Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli. The team members will hold discussions with Indian officials and personnel about their experiences of ship operation during the trip, according to Madhav Belbase,Â Joint Secretary at Water and Energy Commission Secretariat, who heads a committee formed to study the feasibility of ship operation in Nepal. India has invited the Nepali team for the study visit, according to him. Meanwhile, Belbase claims the committee is studying various documents related to rivers of Nepal. Likewise, the team members are researching about international experiences in similar projects, according to him. Belbase hopes Nepal’s first ship will come into operation by the end of 2019. So far, Narayani River has been found most practical to launch the service. Published on August 10th, Friday, 2018 3:17 PM 
Kathmandu, August 10 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has ignored repeated calls from leaders of the Rastriya Janata Party (RJP) to meet, the leaders have complained. Top leaders of the party want to meet Oli to ask him about progress made in implementing the three-point deal reached during the formation of the government, and to give in an ultimatum, said party coordinator Mahantha Thakur. “We want to learn about the progress made in amending the constitution, withdrawing of cases filed against Madheshis involved in the Madhesh movements, administering of the oath of office to MP Resham Chaudhary and the government’s stance on the development of Madesh,” Thakur told Onlinekhabar. “We were supposed to meet him on Thursday but we got a calls saying that the Prime Minister is busy. We haven’t had a word from the PMO after that,” added Thakur, whose party decided to back the Oli government after signing a three-point deal with the ruling party, The Prime Minister’s personal secretariat says the Prime Minister hasn’t had time to convene a meeting with the RJP leaders. According to a sources, Thakur on Tuesday met Oli alone his office. He said that during the meeting, he raised the same issues. Published on August 10th, Friday, 2018 1:02 PM 
 Bhaktapur, August 10 Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa has defended police officials involved in the killing of two men allegedly involved in the kidnapping of a boy in Bhaktapur. Talking to mediapersons in Bharatpur, Minister Thapa, who had earlier said a probe would be commissioned to look into the case, said reportes about the ‘fake encounter’ were untrue. “Police opened fire on Nishan Khadka’s kidnappers in an encounter,” said Thapa. Thapa also praised the police officials in the case for solving it withinÂ 24 hours. Thapa, on Thursday, had told Parliament’s State Affairs and Good Governance Committee that an investigation would be launched into the case. But hours after he made the statement, the minister says he has already reached the conclusion that the killing was part of an ‘encounter’ and not pre-meditated murder. According to a source, SSP Dhiraj Singh, Metropolitan Crime Investigation Bureau, met Minister Thapa on Thursday to discuss the case and convinced Thapa the two men were killed in a real encounter. Published on August 10th, Friday, 2018 12:01 PM 
Kathmandu, August 9 The Supreme Court has issued an interim order in the name of government not to let new Member Secretary of Lumbini Development Trust, Bishnu Prasad Dhakal, assume his responsibility till the final verdict on a writ petition filed against him is issued. A single bench of Justice Deepak Kumar Karki has handed down the order in response to the writ filed by Shiva Aryal. Advocate Aryal was one of 22 applicants who were competing for the position after then Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government began an open competition for the position. After the government appointed Dhakal, who was not in the competition, around two weeks ago, Aryal had moved the court claiming the decision breached the law. Dhakal is also the incumbent Chief District Officer of Palpa. In the preliminary hearing held on the case, advocates Raman Shrestha, Upendra Keshari Neupane, Tikaram Bhattarai, Sunil Pokharal and Aryal himself argued against the government decision. Published on August 9th, Thursday, 2018 3:03 PM 
Lalitpur, August 9 As a part of the master plan for revamping the Jawalakhel-based Central Zoo, a new ‘dining hall’ has been constructed here to serve 837 animals with foods. A sophisticated and spacious hall was built by dismantling the 90-year-old Rana time structure, shares the Central Zoo officials. With the construction of new structure, it has become easier to prepare foods for animals and maintain sanitation around the feeding zone, says assistant curator at the central zoo, Ganesh Koirala. In addition to the hall, the Central Zoo is in course of bringing reforms in all infrastructures including animal enclosures, aviaries and offices, informs Central Zoo manager Chiranjibi Kharel. “Almost 60 percent old infrastructures have been so far reconstructed. We are also building new and modern structures for animals,” he adds. Preparations are also on to digitise the entire information system of the Central Zoo, according to Kharel. The Central Zoo has been managed by the National Trust for Nature Conservation for the past 22 years as per the memorandum of understating between Nepal government and the Trust for 30 years. It is the home for 837 animals of 124 species where roughly 1.1 million visitors come every year. Rana Prime Minister Judda Shumsher had established the zoo for personal recreation which was later opened for the general public as well. RSS Published on August 9th, Thursday, 2018 12:22 PM 
Kathmandu, August 9 Following decades-long custom, Nepali Army’s Chief Rajendra Chhetri has decided to stay on leave from Thursday, exactly a month before his retirement. Accordingly, Lieutenant General Purna Chandra Thapa is taking over the reins of the national military force. The government has already decided to pick Thapa for next Army Chief. He will be promoted once Chhetri will retire on September 9. The Nepali Army Headquarters has organised a special function in Kathmandu today, during which Chhetri will hand over the responsibilities to his successor today. Meanwhile, Chhetri has claimed his term as the Chief of Army Staff was successful despite challenges galore. 
 Published on August 9th, Thursday, 2018 11:45 AM 
Pokhara, August 9 The Gandaki provincial government has accused the federal government of not cooperating with the newly formed provincial governments. Officials of the provincial government including Chief Minister Prithvi Subba Gurung during a meeting with representatives of the federal government urged them to consider voices of provincial governments too, claiming the lack of cooperation from the central government resulted in the weak performance of provincial governments. Receiving a team led by Lal Shankar Ghimire, a senior official of the Office of the Prime Minister, Chief Minister Gurung, ministers and high provincial officials told him that the federal government failed to meet their expectations. The province government complained that the central government could not facilitate the staff management and allocate resources necessary for the institutionalisation of provincial governments. “The provincial government came into the operation, but it does not have its own offices and sufficient staff yet,” Gurung told the team, “We were supposed to formulate some new laws, but they have been blocked due to the federal government.” “We are still at the position of expecting help from the government of Nepal to implement plans of the provincial government.” He also complained that the central government did not respond to some of his correspondences. Published on August 9th, Thursday, 2018 11:19 AM 
Kathmandu, August 8 A prominent human rights activist says the recent killing by police of two men accused of abducting a child in Bhaktapur amounts to extra-judicial murder and the perpetrators should face their actions’ consequences. Activist Charan Prasain, in an interview with Onlinekhabar said, that the ‘encounter’ at Ghyampe Danda was fake. He also called on the National Human Rights Commission to take the incident seriously. “This is a very serious incident. I would like to say that abducting a child is a heinous crime. But this does not mean that the police can kill people accused in criminal cases. This looks like a fake encounter,” he added. “This is something we cannot accept.” Prasain said that if police officials involved in the incident are not punished, anyone could be killed in the name of encounter. “Nepal’s constitution does not have provisions for capital punishment and no one has the authority to kill.” Families appeal to NHRC Meanwhile, the families of the alleged abductors went to the National Human Rights Commission and filed a complaint against police claiming the two were murdered. They have demanded that the national human rights watchdog investigate into the case and reveal the truth. Published on August 8th, Wednesday, 2018 12:47 PM 
Kathmandu, August 8 The government has concluded that it cannot pay compensations to owners of all the structures that get demolished during road expansion before actual demolition, and hence decided to file an appeal at the Supreme Court requesting a revision to its verdict. A division bench of justices Kedar Prasad Chalise, Hari Krishna Karki and Purushottam Bhandari in the first week of July had published the full text of the order that the government must calculate compensations to be distributed among owners of land and houses before demolishing their property. Likewise, it had said that the government should pay compensation to anyone whose residences were demolished notwithstanding their legal right to use the property. The order was made in response to a writ filed on the ongoing Kalanki-Naagdhunga road expansion project. But now, the Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport has concluded that the decision is impractical, therefore is going to request the court to vacate it, according to its spokesperson Rajendra Prasad Sharma. “We have enough ground to appeal for the revision on the basis of existing laws,” Sharma says, “We will begin the process soon.” Officials of the Ministry says the recent order contradicts various provisions of existing laws. Published on August 8th, Wednesday, 2018 12:30 PM 
Kathmandu, August 8 The government is preparing to revise existing provisions on third party insurance for victims of road accident cases so that the families get more amount if their members die in mishaps. Whereas the family gets Rs 500,000 as third party insurance currently, it will be Rs 1 million once the new provision comes into effect. The Department of Transport Management says it is doubling the amount as transport entrepreneur committees, which otherwise would shoulder a part of the compensation to the victims, have been dissolved. For that, the premium amount of the insurance that motorists have to pay will also be increased. Meanwhile, the Department says it will also increase the amount that insurance companies will provide for treatment of those injured in road accidents. Currently, one injuredÂ  gets Rs 300,000 for treatment. The Department is consulting Beema Samiti, Nepal’s insurance board, to finalise the revisions. The two sides held a meeting today as well. The Department’s spokesperson Tulasi Ram Aryal says the Samiti has been asked to present a proposal for the revisions within next 15 days. Published on August 8th, Wednesday, 2018 12:01 PM 
 Chitwan, August 8 At least four persons died and 17 persons sustained injuries when a truck and a bus collided head on at Bhanu Chok, Ratnanagar Municipality-10 of Chitwan district along the East-West Highway on late Tuesday night. The truck (Na 5 Kha 5941) heading towards Narayangadh from the eastern side hit the bus (Na 6 Kha 1471) coming from the opposite direction, according to police. The Makalu Yatayat bus was heading to Kakarbhitta of Jhapa district from Kathmandu carrying passengers whereas the truck was laden with bricks. The victims have been identified as Mohan Ghising (34) from Chapur of Rautahat, his assistant Buddhiman Lama (30) from the same place and two bus passengers–Bishnu Prasad Thapa (48) from Thankot of Kathmandu, and Tara Baral (42) from Khumling of Taplejun, informs DSP Prabhu Prasad Dhakal. All of them had died during treatment at a local health facility. Thirteen of the victims are undergoing treatment at Purano Medical College whereas four have been admitted to Chitwan Medical College. Further investigation is underway. Published on August 8th, Wednesday, 2018 10:21 AM 
Pokhara, August 7 Annapurna Rural Municipality in Kaski district, which also includes the Annapurna Base Camp under its jurisdiction, has decided to impose a ban on operation of helicopters here. The local government has argued that the decision was made so as to protect flora and fauna of the region. The decision will affect ‘rich’ tourists, both domestic and international, who would otherwise charter choppers to make a visit to the popular tourism. Of late, some companies had concentrated their services along Pokhara-Machhapuchhre and Pokhara-Annapurna routes. The Rural Municipality’s Chairman Yubaraj Kunwar says the decision was made after it was found that vibration and sound the flights would produce were chasing away various animals. He warns that the local government would take action against helicopter operators if they defy the rule. The decision will come into effect from August 17. Earlier, the Annapurna Conservation Area Project had also made a similar decision, but failed to implement it. But, the local government says it will promote trekking culture by banning the choppers. Published on August 7th, Tuesday, 2018 3:18 PM 
Kathmandu, August 7 After police killed two personsÂ ,who abducted and murdered an 11-year-old boy from Kandaghari of Kathmandu in Thimi of Bhaktapur, in Doleshwor of the district on Monday, the victim’s family is unlikely to get compensation. The new criminal code that will come into effect from August 17 has a provision that families of victims of abduction and murder cases get compensations from the perpetrators. However, with the death of perpetrators, there is no one to pay compensation to the family in this case. As police investigation will take around one week, the case will enter the court procedures only around or after August 17. In principle, criminal justice system believes that a crime dies with its criminal. This principle will apply to the abduction and murder of Nishan Khadka as well. If the perpetrators were not killed, they would face imprisonment and fine as well as a liability to compensate the victim’s family. Published on August 7th, Tuesday, 2018 2:37 PM 
Kathmandu, August 7 The government is introducing a new consumer right law, allowing members of the public to file tort cases demanding compensation if any product or service causes harm to them. Such provision is being introduced for the first time in the country. A bill prepared to replace various consumer rights laws with one integrated act has recently been registered in Parliament after the Cabinet endorsed it. Joint Secretary at the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies, Nawaraj Dhakal, says the new law will hold producers, service providers and other stakeholders responsible for torts. Meanwhile, the new law will also form the Consumer Court for the first time in the country. Currently, cases related to consumer rights are filed at respective district courts, which are already slow in settling the disputes thanks to a high number of unsettled cases. Likewise, the act will allow customers to get their money back within seven days if any product they purchase is found to be damaged. Published on August 7th, Tuesday, 2018 11:55 AM 
Birgunj, August 7 In its bid to strengthen the party’s presence and cope with the challenges set by regional political forces in the region, the ruling Nepal Communist Party is launching a ‘Marxism publicity campaign’ in eight districts of southern plains of the country, which are now parts of Province 2. During the campaign, the party leaders will try to teach locals that Marxism is the best instrument to fight against all suppression and discrimination they have been facing for decades. Young people are primary targets of the campaign. The campaign will be launched with a two-day function to be hosted in Birgunj of Parsa district on August 17 and 18. Top leaders of the party, other communist leaders and leftist intellectuals will attend the function, according to the party. The party has formed a committee under the leadership of former minister Purushottam Paudel to make the campaign a success. Six sub-committees are working under the main committee. Meanwhile, the committee organised a press conference in Birgunj to inform public about preparations being made for the campaign. Published on August 7th, Tuesday, 2018 11:34 AM 
Kathmandu, August 7 It has been around five months since the main opposition Nepali Congress decided to form a ‘shadow cabinet’ to track activities of the Nepal Communist Party-led government and put pressure on the elected government against wrong decisions. The decision, however, is yet to be implemented. The party’s spokesperson, Bishwa Prakash Sharma, says his party is yet to execute the decision as it has not distributed responsibilities among leaders in the party. “We are holding informal discussions and it will conclude soon.” Nevertheless, he tries to claim that the ‘shadow cabinet’ is already functioning as it should not be formally announced. “The shadow cabinet never gets formed formally,” he tells Onlinekhabar, “It is just about assigning responsibilities to the leaders internally.” Sharma says the party will form such shadow governments at local and provincial levels too. Meanwhile, multiple sources in the party says Deuba is planning to take the lead in shadow cabinet and distributing responsibilities among factions led by himself, Ram Chandra Paudel and Krishna Prasad Sitaula. Published on August 7th, Tuesday, 2018 11:02 AM 
Washington, August 6 Minister for Finance Yubaraj Khatiwada has called on Nepalis living and working in the United Nations to investment their capital in development projects in Nepal. Khatiwada says they can invest in tourism, finance and other sectors in the homeland. Speaking with non-resident Nepalis in Maryland on Sunday, the Minister said, “Please come to Nepal to invest your property, technology, skills and labour in various sectors. We are ready to facilitate the process.” “We are in a campaign to make the country prosperous. Therefore, we are working on to create an environment in which the investors can take out their profit after pay applicable taxes. We have adopted an one-door policy for that.” In another context, he said no Nepali would need to go abroad for a job after 10 years. The Minister is currently in the US to take part in a discussion with the World Bank. Published on August 6th, Monday, 2018 12:24 PM 
Kathmandu, August 6 The government of Nepal is revising its rule regarding providing flight licences to airline companies. It has been learned that the government is planning to give priority to the companies which are already in operation in the domestic market for international flights too. Now, if a company has operated domestic flights for at least five years, it can get the international flight operation permit without meeting any additional requirement. Currently, all the companies are required to participate in an open competition for the permit. The Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation says the revision is being made as the existing rule is not relevant and timely. The government has targeted increasing the share of Nepali airline companies up to 60 per cent in international flights to be conducted from Nepal with the rule, an official at the Ministry informs. As of now, three airlines from Nepal–the government-owned Nepal Airlines, Himalaya and Buddha–are operating international flights. BB Airways has acquired the permit, but has not launched the service. Likewise, Shree Airlines has expressed its concerns for the service. Meanwhile, the Ministry source says the government will now categorise operation licences so that companies with varying paid-up capitals can apply for different categories. Published on August 6th, Monday, 2018 12:08 PM 
Kathmandu, August 6 The Nepal national cricket team have returned home on Monday morning after registering the historic first win in one day international match against the Netherlands recently. Nepal had defeated the hosts by one run in the second match of the two-match series on Friday. They, however, had lost to the Dutch by 55 runs on Wednesday last week. Officials among National Sports Council Keshav Kumar Bista welcome the Paras Khadka-led team at the Tribhuvan International Airport with garlands this morning. Likewise, a crowd of fans outside the airport greeted them to offer a hero’s welcome. Published on August 6th, Monday, 2018 11:37 AM 
Kathmandu, August 5 Minister for Physical Infrastructure and Transport Raghubir Mahaseth has directed concerned authorities and officials to fix all potholes of major roads in the Kathmandu Valley by August 28. The Minister’s directive targets making major roads in the city smooth for the fourth summit of the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation. Nepal, the current chair of the regional body, will host the summit in Kathmandu on August 30 and 31. Heads of states and governments from BIMSTEC member states including Nepal, India, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Thailand will attend the summit. Officials at the Ministry inform that Minister Mahaseth has been taking stock of the progress made in road renovation almost everyday. The road from Kathmandu International Airport to Soaltee Mode via Tinkune, Naya Baneshwor, Thapathali and Teku is the most prioritised one. The government is planning to establish roadside gardens from the Airport to Tinkune. Nepal Telecom is partnering with the government for maintenance of the gardens. Published on August 5th, Sunday, 2018 3:31 PM 
Kathmandu, August 5 The World Health Organisation says six South-East Asian countries among Nepal have controlled rubella and congenital rubella syndrome, for the first time in the region. Rubella control is achieved when a country reduces  the number of rubella cases by 95% as compared to the number of rubella cases in 2008. The global health agency informs in a statement that Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Timor-Leste are the first six countries in the WHO South-East Asia Region to control rubella and congenital rubella syndrome. The achievement was made two years ahead of the target year 2020, according to the United Nations body. “These achievements demonstrate the commitment and resolve of countries in the Region towards health of women and children, and for universal health coverage,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director WHO South-East Asia. Meanwhile, two countries of WHO South-East Asia Region, DPR Korea and Timor-Leste, have been verified for eliminating measles, the WHO adds. The Regional Verification Commission, an independent body of experts that met in Delhi from 31 July to 2 August, that both DPR Korea and Timor-Leste have interrupted transmission of indigenous measles for more than three years based on an in-depth review of the data and reports provided by national verification committees, according to the agency.   Published on August 5th, Sunday, 2018 2:53 PM 
Gorkha, August 5 Residences of 72 families in Khanigaun, Lapu, Dharche Rural Municipality-7 of Gorkha district have been living at the risk of being buried by a landslide. Incessant rainfall since last night has triggered the landslide at local Janggang Danda this morning. Local Sushil Gurung says 11 households have already been displaced by the landslide. They have taken refuge from relatives at nearby locations. Meanwhile, Chief District Officer Narayan Prasad Bhattarai says police teams have been deployed at affected locations. “All local level governments have formed disaster management committees,” he says, “They will do various activities for prevention. We will send needful security personnel for rescue.” He has urged locals to stay alert against possible risks of the landslide. Published on August 5th, Sunday, 2018 2:24 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 5 The number of people killed in aÂ landslide in Bheri Municipality-3 of Jajarkot district in Karnali province on Sunday morning has reached seven. One person is injured whereas two are missing, according to Chief District Officer Lalit Kumar Basnet. Four of the victims are minors. Two are yet to be identified. (Updated) A landslide in Bheri Municipality-3 of Jajarkot district in Karnali province has buried four persons to death on Sunday morning. The victims include one woman and three men. They, however, are yet to be identified. Incessant rainfall since Saturday night had triggered the landslide. DSP Rabindra Bahadur Singh. Chief of the District Police Office, says police have rescued a person live from the incident. He has been identified as local Lal Bahadur Luhar. The policeman suspects that the victims include his wife and child. “The bodies are yet to be taken out of the debris,” DSP Singh says, “Another house has also been buried nearby. We have moblised another team for rescue there.” Personnel from Nepal Army and Armed Police Force have also been mobilised. Published on August 5th, Sunday, 2018 10:39 AM 
Chitwan, August 3 Officials of the Chitwan National Park (CNP) are preparing to send the second pair of rhinos to be gifted to the Government of People’s Republic of China on August 16. Chief Conservation Officer of the Park, Bed Kumar Dhakal, says Chinese officials are preparing to take the gifted rhinos, adding that the Chinese side is working to arrange a cargo plane and receive approval from the airport. Earlier, the Government of Nepal had sent the first pair of rhinos to China on July 12. The male rhino of one-and-a-half years has been named Solti while the name of two-year-old female is Mitini. The rhinos are being sent to Kathmandu on August 14, two days before their departure to China. The officials of the Park say that there will be no problem in translocation of the rhinos since they are familiar with the humans. Like before, the Park veterinarians, technicians and assistants will be sent this time too together with the rhinos. The veterinary doctors and technicians, who had gone to gift the first couple of rhinos, have already returned while the assistants are yet to arrive home. During his visit to China two years ago, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had pledged to gift two pairs of rhinos. RSS Published on August 3rd, Friday, 2018 3:31 PM 
Kathmandu, August 3 Nepal have elected to bat first against the hosts as they are playing the second match of the two-match limited over series, in the Netherlands on Friday. Nepal, who suffered a loss of 55 runs in the first match played on Wednesday, have changed their Playing XI. Veteran Shakti Gauchan, who has announced that this match will be the last international game for him, has not been included in the team. Likewise, Karan KC and Sharad Veshawkar are not playing. Veshawkar had sustained an injury during the Wednesday match. Subash Khakurel, Lalit Bhandari and Rohit Kumar Paudel have been added to the list. There is no change in the Dutch side. The match is being played at at VRA Ground, Amstelveen. Published on August 3rd, Friday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Kathmandu, August 3 The Tribhuvan International Airport says it has briefly barred aircraft from taking off and landing at its runway for the runway has to be immediately repaired on Friday. The runway was shut after its blacktopping got damaged, creating problems in the operation. Now, the runway of the only international airport of the country is being blacktopped again. The runway has been shut from 11:10 am today and it will take some more time to resume the facility, according to the TIA administration. Currently, around half down aircraft are held in the sky whereas many more are awaiting to take off. Hundreds of passengers have been affected due to the halt. Published on August 3rd, Friday, 2018 12:01 PM 
 Kathmandu, August 3 The smallest country in Africa, Seychelles, has expressed its interest to recruit Nepali guards to employ them for prison security. The country says it wants to recruit the works through a government-to-government agreement. Spokesperson at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security, Deepak Dahal, informs that the country has already sent a draft of the memorandum of understanding to begin the recruitment process. Dahal says the Ministry will take an appropriate decision after conducting a study about the host country’s economy, labour laws, climate and facilities to be provided to the workers. He claims the government will keep the welfare of labourers at the centre while finalising the deal. Therefore, the Ministry wants to ensure handsome pays for the workers and their own security at first. Prisons in this island country are among most well-facilitated jails in the world. Officials of the Ministry believe that the African country wanted to employ Nepali guards for the security of these prisons because Nepalis have historically been known for their bravery. Until now, a handful of Nepalis have reached the country for employment on their own.   Published on August 3rd, Friday, 2018 11:08 AM 
Kathmandu/Janakpurdham, August 3 The High Court in Janakpurdham on Thursday issued an order in the name of Mahottari District Police Office to arrest two ‘absconding’ suspects of a murder case. The persons, whom the police say are absconding, however, are holding significant state positions in provincial and local governments. Abhiram Sharma has recently been appointed the State Minister for Social Development in Province 2 government. Likewise, Ram Shankar Mishra is the mayor of Mahottari district headquarters, Jaleshwor. Both belong to the Rastriya Janata Party Nepal, a ruling coalition member in the province. A division bench of judge duo Madhav Prasad Pokharel and Ravi Sharma Aryal issued the order in response to a writ filed against the government’s failure to arrest them though they are holding state positions. Both are accused of murdering Armed Police Force staffer Thaman BK during a clash in September 2015. BK’s wife Shobha Gahatraj had moved the court against them. Meanwhile, the party’s central leadership says it will hold a meeting soon to decide how to respond to the order. “After the court has made the decision, the issues has to be seriously discussed,” the party’s presidium member Raj Kishor Yadav says, “The party will take an appropriate decision soon.” He, however, argues that the death of BK was a political incident as it happened during the Madhesh movement. “During that time, many of such incidents would occur and they would be dealt politically,” Yadav claims, “This is also a part of that series.” Published on August 3rd, Friday, 2018 10:40 AM 
Kathmandu, August 2 The national flag carrier Nepal Airlines Corporation has demanded that the government provide it Rs 5 billion to purchase six new aircraft. The Corporation has already sent the request to the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation as it plans to buy six Twin Otter aeroplanes at the earliest. The Ministry of Civil Aviation has already endorsed the proposal and forwarded it to the Ministry of Finance. If the Finance Ministry approves the plan, it will be sent to the Cabinet for the final decision. The Corporation’s General Manager Sugat Ratna Kansakar says the Corporation wants to increase its paid-up capital to Rs 20 billion; and Rs 5 billion has been sought from the government in the first phase. Later, the government will give the Corporation Rs 15 billion in different phases, according to him. The paid-up capital of the Corporation stands at rs 360 million now. Earlier, Minister Rabindra Adhikari had announced that the Corporation would purchase six Twin Otter aircraft in the first 100 days of his office. Kansakar says the new aircraft will arrive within next one year. Published on August 2nd, Thursday, 2018 12:28 PM 
Kathmandu, August 2 The National Examination Board says it has made results for GradeÂ  XII annual examinations public on Thursday morning. The examinations were held in April and May this year. Results of all streams and faculties, in both regular and exempted categories, have been published simultaneously this time. Earlier, Science stream students would get the results earlier than other students. Details of the results in the regular category are as follows: Published on August 2nd, Thursday, 2018 11:41 AM 
Pokhara, September 2 The provincial government in Gandaki has demanded that the federal government hand over it the ownership of various government buildings and facilities as the provincial government has begun using them for various purposes. A meeting of the provincial Council of Ministers held in Pokhara of Kaski district on Wednesday made a decision to write to the federal government to hand over the ownership of the buildings including those used for Provincial Assembly and Cabinet meetings. The government spokesperson Ram Sharan Basnet says the request has been made to hand over buildings housing the Chief Minister’s Office, other ministries, Provincial Assembly building and its secretariat and the Office of Main Secretary among others to the provincial government. “Because the provincial government is not in the capacity to construct new structures immediately, we demand that the existing structures be handed over.” Basnet, also the provincial government’s Minister for Physical Infrastructure, informs that even the vehicles used by provincial officials belong to the federal government. He hopes that officials at the federal government understand the situation and consider their request. Meanwhile, Basnet says the provincial government is soon increasing the number of ministries whereas some ministries should be immediately relocated. Therefore, accommodating all the offices has been more challenging. Published on August 2nd, Thursday, 2018 11:23 AM 
 Kathmandu, August 1 The Complaint Hearing Section of Armed Police Force Headquarters says members of the public have filed as many as 49 complaints against the Force in past three months. Six of the complaints are about financial irregularities, five about gender-based and domestic violence, five about activities against good conduct, five about transfer and promotion, five about United Nations peacekeeping missions, two about financial irregularities and 17 about miscellaneous issues. DIG Baburam Pandey says 46 of the complaints have already been addressed. “The rest three complaints will be addressed at the earliest by assigning focal persons for individual cases. Of the complaints, five were filed via email and Facebook whereas 18 were registered via telephone. Likewise, the Force is effectively addressing complaints filed against the force via Hello Sarkar, according to Pandey. Published on August 1st, Wednesday, 2018 2:45 PM 
Kathmandu, August 1 Nepali Congress Joint General Secretary Prakash Sharan Mahat says errors in academic credentials of Chief Justice nominee Deepak Raj Joshee are in fact not the major reasons behind the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s preparations to reject him for the top judicial position. “They [leaders of the NCP] have tried to establish academic certificates as the issue. But, it is not the crux,” he tells Onlinekhabar in an interview, “They want to check if the judiciary functions in the way they like.” A meeting of the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee is due for this afternoon and the meeting is expected to make a decision whether to endorse or reject Joshee’s name for the Chief Justice. Media have reported that the NCP is preparing to reject his name. Two ruling parties–NCP and the Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal–have 10 members in the 15-member Committee and they can reject any nomination. “They say the Committee members are free to decide. But, how can they be free when they receive commands from the top?” Mahat argues, “They want to keep a sword hanging above the court. We understand that rejecting the name is an interference in the court and protest accordingly.” Published on August 1st, Wednesday, 2018 2:22 PM 
Kathmandu, August 1 The National Assembly on Wednesday endorsed a condolence motion on the death of former lawmaker Krishna Kumar Joshi. Following the endorsement of the proposal, the meeting has been adjourned for 11:30 am on Thursday.Â Customarily, Parliament meetings do not discuss other agendas after endorsing a condolence motion. A minute of silence was also observed to pay tribute to Joshi during the meeting. The Nepali Congress leader had represented Baitadi Constituency 1 in the first House of Representatives elected after the restoration of multiparty democracy in 1991. Meanwhile, Joshi’s body has been kept at the party’s central office in Sanepa of Lalitpur for final tributes. The party says he will be cremated at Pashupati Aryaghat later this afternoon. Published on August 1st, Wednesday, 2018 1:02 PM 
Kathmandu, August 1 The Indian Embassy in Kathmandu says it has finally shut its Biratnagar-based field (camp) office from Wednesday as the government had earlier announced. “All services including issuing of motor vehicle permits, registration certificates for Indian nationals,  attestation of documents  and miscellaneous  services (birth/death registrations) being rendered by Embassy of India Camp Office, Biratnagar will cease with effect from August 1, 2018,” the Embassy informed, “For any services, hitherto being rendered by Embassy of India Camp Office, Biratnagar, please contact Embassy of India, Kathmandu.” Earlier in May, some days after the visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Nepal, the New Delhi government had said it already decided to close the office. “The purpose for which this Camp Office was opened has been fulfilled. GoI had already decided to wind up the Camp Office and re-locate the personnel,” the Embassy’s statement stated then. India had established the office in Biratnagar for security check of Nepalis entering India after a flood in Saptakoshi in the monsoon of 2008 created a havoc in eastern Nepal. Published on August 1st, Wednesday, 2018 10:25 AM 
Kathmandu, July 31 China has gifted two modern broomer machines to the Kathmandu Metropolitan City. The machines will arrive in Kathmandu within next two months. Earlier, the Chengdu Municipal Association of China had expressed its commitment to gift the machines to Nepal’s capital city while Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli visited the Chinese city in June. However, the Association’s representative handed over the keys of the machines to the KMC Environment Management Division’s Chief Hari Bahadur Kunwar in Kathmandu today itself. The broomers have Euro Standard 4, are 8.6 metre long and 3.5 metre wide, according to the KMC. They will operate on diesel. A broomer canÂ  collect seven cubic metre dust at once, and can carry equal amount of water. It can run at a speed of 98 km per hour. Based on the condition of roads, the machine can clean up three to 20 km road per hour. Meanwhile, the KMC is preparing to purchase five other broomer machines on its own. The purchase will be made within next two months. Published on July 31st, Tuesday, 2018 4:19 PM 
Kathmandu, July 31 At least three persons died when one person sustained injuries when a container truck fell off the road in Gosainkunda Rural Municipality-5 of Rasuwa district on Tuesday afternoon. The truck (Na 6 Kha 4929) fell around 200 metres down the road from a cliff while it was hearing to Kathmandu from Tibet via Rasuwagadhi border point, carrying freight. The deceased are yet to be identified. The District Police Office says the injured person has been kept at a Dhunche-based hospital. However, the injured’s situation is critical; therefore a helicopter is being brought to take to Kathmandu, according to police. Published on July 31st, Tuesday, 2018 4:03 PM 
Biratnagar, July 31 Nepali Congress leader Bijay Kumar Gachchhadar says acting Chief Justice Deepak Raj Joshee should be promoted to the top post of the judiciary. Gachchhadar, who was talking to mediapersons in Biratnagar on Tuesday, said that it was unnecessary to raise questions about a person who has served the judiciary for over 30 years. “He was not controversial for 30 years and now his education certificates make him controversial?” Gachchhadar asked. The comment comes as the Parliamentary Hearing Committee remains undecided on the issue of Joshee’s appointment as the new Chief Justice. Gachchhadar, who is also the deputy leader of the party in Parliament, said his party would not allow the government to interfere in the judiciary. “We cannot accept any form of attack on constitutional bodies. The Nepali Congress will bring people to the streets,” he added. Published on July 31st, Tuesday, 2018 3:09 PM 
Kathmandu, July 31 Ruling Nepal Communist Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says the Nepal-India bilateral relations should focus on exploring new areas of cooperation. Addressing the inaugural of Nepal-India Think Tank Summit in Kathmandu today, Dahal urged members of think tank organisations to concentrate their research on new areas. “The astounding strides made in industrial development, the inspiring examples unleashed in the field of innovation and invention, the pioneering progress in IT, and remarkable pace of economic growth are all set to put India firmly at the global forefront,” he said, “Our bilateral relationship should be expanded and consolidated in a way that enables Nepal to benefit from Indiaâ€™s unprecedented progress and prosperity. We need research-based inputs and informed suggestions towards this end.” He said those issues could bring Nepal-India relations to new heights of mutual satisfaction, consistent with the trends of time and the aspirations of people of both countries. “We should look to the future with an open and progressive mind-set, learning from the past to ensure that 21st century Nepal-India relations are qualitatively different and are tailored to serve the interests of both countries in a mutually beneficial way. It should be a partnership that befits our intimacy and shared destiny.” Published on July 31st, Tuesday, 2018 12:44 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 31 The main opposition party Nepali Congress is staging demonstrations against the incumbent government across the country on Tuesday. The party says it will stage protests in headquarters ofÂ  all 77 districts claiming the government is heading towards totalitarianism. The party has recently announced a nationwide protest programme against the government and the functions to be organised today are also parts of the programme. The opposition says staging the protests has been necessary to protect democratic values and object to authoritarianism the government is allegedly promoting. Meanwhile, the party’s Kathmandu District Committee will stage a rally in the capital today. The Committee’s President Sabuj Baniya says the march will begin from Shanti Batika and pass through Bhotahiti, Ason, Bishalbazaar and New Road to come back to the starting place. A corner meeting will be organised there, where the party’s central leaders will also address. Published on July 31st, Tuesday, 2018 11:45 AM 
Kathmandu, July 30 The central bank of Nepal has called for applications from airline companies to supply banknotes to remote areas of the country. The Nepalgunj office of Nepal Rastra Bank has issued a notice for the airline companies urging them to submit sealed tender to provide the service. The companies have been given 31 days to submit the tender. Aircraft will be used to supply banknotes to Jumla, Mugu, Humla and Dola districts of Karnali province. The applicants have to deposit Rs 120,000 as the bid bond or anything recognised by the central bank worth equal value as the guarantee, according to the bank. Published on July 30th, Monday, 2018 2:57 PM 
Kathmandu, July 30 The Ministry of Home Affairs says total 455 persons lost their lives in various disasters across the country in past 3.5 months. The Ministry made public the data about losses caused by the disasters since the beginning of Bikram Samvat 2075 (mid-April). According to Shankar Hari Acharya, the Chief at Ministry’s National Emergency Operation Centre, 272 persons drowned in this period. Likewise, one person succumbed to boat capsize, 10 to fire, 28 to floods and 43 to landslides. Similarly, altitude sickness killed 12 and lightning 40. The Centre informs that the deceased include 309 men and 146 women. Total 72 persons are missing and 2,230 sustained injuries in the incident. As many as 3,775 houses have been affected. The Ministry says the monetary value of all losses is equal to Rs 1.95 billion. Published on July 30th, Monday, 2018 2:04 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 30 The Government of China is going to provide assistance through various projects to social development endeavours of Nepal. A memorandum of understanding was signed between the Social Welfare Council and the China NGO Network for International Exchanges (CNIE) to run projects in the field of community development, livelihood, disaster management, skills-oriented training, education and health services. The MoU was signed on Sunday evening, according to the Council. The MoU was signed by Minister for Women, Children and Elderly Citizens Tham Maya Thapa on behalf of the Council and visiting Chinese Deputy Minister for External Affairs Wang Yajun on behalf of China. Minister Thapa also chairs the Social Welfare Council. On the occasion, Minister Thapa stressed the need for strengthening age-old relations between the two countries at the people-to-people level, while saying the agreement would help the countries establish cooperation and coordination for their socioeconomic development. Deputy Minister Wang expressed happiness over being able to support the development and prosperity of neighbouring Nepal. Meanwhile, the Council’s legal advisor Nisha Baniya shared that Chinese government donated two broomer machines to the Kathmandu Metropolitan City. RSS Published on July 30th, Monday, 2018 12:33 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 29 Nepal has invited China to join a meeting in Kathmandu next month in a bid to finalise the draft of Protocol of Transit and Transport Agreement to be signed between the two neighbours. Earlier last month, a Nepali team had visited Beijing to discuss the draft. Upon failure to finalise the document, the team led by Secretary at the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies Chandra Kumar Ghimire returned home after handing over the invitation to the Chinese side. Nepal and China signed the Agreement during the first visit Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli in 2016 March. It was expected that the Protocol would be signed during Oli’s visit to Beijing in June this year. However, it could not be held due to different reasons. “But we have continued negotiations,” the Ministry’s Joint Secretary Rabi Shanka Sainju says, “Some significant issues are yet to be finalised.” Sources say the major bone of contention is which routes Nepal will use to access ports for import and export activities. Published on July 29th, Sunday, 2018 3:42 PM 
Kathmandu, July 29 Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara says lawmakers cannot demand resignation of either himself or his deputy Shiva Maya Tumbahamphe during parliamentary discussions as a case with the same demand is being considered by the Supreme Court. Mahara responded to a statement made by Nepali Congress lawmaker Laxmi Pariyar in the House of Representatives today citing Article 105 of the constitution bars anyone including the House to discuss the issues which are sub judice. Media have reported that the main opposition party is planning to raise the issue strongly in both the houses as well as on the streets. But, Mahara told the House today, “I would like to inform you that discussion on this issue cannot be held as it may have adverse impacts on justice delivery about the case being considered by the court as mentioned in Article 105 of the constitution.” Advocate Achyut Kharel around a month ago had filed a case at the Supreme Court demanding a writ ordering the Speaker and his deputy to be from separate parties. The constitution has it that the two top officials of the House of Representatives must belong to different parties. Earlier, the balance was maintained as Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara represented then CPN-Maoist Centre whereas the Deputy Speaker Shiva Maya Tumbahamphe represented then CPN-UML. However, the two parties later merged into the Nepal Communist Party. Following the merger, the  Congress has been demanding that one of them resign. The ruling NCP, however, argues that no one should resign as both of them have already ‘left’ their parties after getting elected to the parliamentary positions, and they were of different parties when they got elected.   Published on July 29th, Sunday, 2018 3:20 PM 
Kathmandu, July 29 Nepal Police says it has arrested two constables of the Armed Police Force for their alleged involvement in the rape of a woman in Kalanki of Kathmandu last Thursday. Of the arrestees, Ram Sharan Pokharel is said to have been in relationship with the victim whereas Chandra Prasain was Pokharel’s workmate. They were deployed at the Balambu office of APF. The arrest was made based on a complaint the victim filed at the Women Cell of Kalimati-based Metropolitan Police Circle one day after the incident. The victim in her complaint told police that her relationship with Pokharel had ended around a year ago. However, the man approached her recently, citing he was ‘improved’. The woman said she easily believed and agreed for the reunion. Pokharel called the woman to see him at Aashirvad Guest House in Kalanki on Thursday. He then made her drink alcohol and convinced to spend the night there. But, at night, Pokharel and Prasain sexually assaulted her, according to the victim. Meanwhile, investigating police officials say the suspects will face a rape case. Further investigation is underway. Published on July 29th, Sunday, 2018 3:05 PM 
Kathmandu, July 29 Nepal are playing against theÂ Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) and the Netherlands at the Lord’s in England on Monday. Both the matches are parts of the international Triangular Twenty20 Series. Each of the three teams will play against the rest two today itself. Nepal will first play against the MCC at 6:15 pm Nepal Standard Time. Their second match against the Netherlands is scheduled for 10:30 pm. In the first match of the Series, the Netherlands and the MCC will play against each other at 3 pm Nepal time. This is the first time Nepal are playing an international match after they are granted the one-day international status by the International Cricket Council. The ICC also recognises the match between Nepal and the Netherlands as an international T20 match. Meanwhile, Nepal skipper Paras Khadka says the matches today are so important that his team eye victory in both the matches. After the matches, Nepal will head to the Netherlands, where they will play against the hosts on Wednesday and Friday. Published on July 29th, Sunday, 2018 10:56 AM 
Kathmandu, July 27 The Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee has postponed its meeting scheduled for Friday afternoon till Sunday. The meeting was scheduled to decide whether to endorse Acting Chief Justice Deepak Raj Joshee’s name for the vacant position of Chief Justice. Generally, the Committee endorses all the names it gets after hearing with the nominees, which has been a mere formality till now. However, this time, the Committee is taking much time to make the decision as Joshee has been dragged into a controversy about different data on his academic certificates. Earlier, his predecessor Gopal Parajuli had lost the job due to a similar case. A member of the Committee says the meeting has been postponed till Sunday as the Committee members wanted to investigate into Joshee’s certificates. It means the appointment of new Chief Justice will be further delayed. The position is vacant since March when it was found that then CJ Parajuli was already past his retirement age. Published on July 27th, Friday, 2018 3:27 PM 
Kathmandu, July 27 The Department of Transport Management says it is resuming collection of applications for and distribution of driving licences, which was halted for last one week, from Sunday. The activity was halted ‘to settle accounts of the recently concluded fiscal year’ last month. The Department says all of its offices across the country except those in Lahan, Birgunj and Baglung will continue collecting applications and distributing licence form the day after tomorrow. Lahan and Birgunj offices will not resume the process as the Province 2 government has requested the federal Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport to put the process on hold for the time being. Baglung office will resume the activity after few days due to logistic problems. Thousands of applicants are awaiting their driving licence across the country. Published on July 27th, Friday, 2018 3:11 PM 
Kathmandu, July  27 The Department of Archaeology says it has completed the post-earthquake reconstruction of Pratappur and Anantapur temples in Swayambhu Stupa premises of Kathmandu. The temples were badly damaged in the magnitude-7.6 earthquake in 2015 April. The Department says the reconstruction has restored the Malla-era temples to their original shape and size. Likewise, the reconstruction of Kimdol Bihar in the same place has also been over, according to the Department. This is the third time the Pratappur Temple was reconstructed. Earlier, the temple was damaged due to a fire and another lightning incident. Meanwhile, the reconstruction of Shantipur Temple and Aananda Kuti Bihar in Swayambhu is underway. The Sri Lankan government has extended support to the reconstruction of Aananda Kuti Bihar in Swayambhu and Seto Machhindranath Temple in Bungamati. Published on July 27th, Friday, 2018 12:26 PM 
Kathmandu, July 27 The Metropolitan Police Range in Kathmandu has launched a bicycle patrol project in a bid to control and combat criminal activities that are likely to occur in inner city areas. In the first phase of the project, 16 police personnel have been mobilised on bicycles in nooks and crannies, according to Range’s chief, SSP Bishwa Raj Pokharel. They will visit different places of the city from 9:30 am to 11 am and 2:30 pm and 6:00 pm everyday, according to him. They will be equipped with arms and ammunition. Pokharel says the teams are assigned to keep local hooligans and gangsters under surveillance, intervene in spats and fights and settle them. They are also authorised to make arrests and hand over the suspects to local police units. “The bicycle patrol teams arrested 20 persons in past one weeks,” he informs. Published on July 27th, Friday, 2018 11:33 AM 
Chitwan, July 27 The Chitwan National Park of Nepal has given names to two one-horned rhinoceros–one male and one female–that Nepal is gifting China within next month. Assistant Conservation Officer and Information Officer at the Park, Narendra Aryal, says the male has been named Solti whereas the female Mitini. Both words mean special friends in Nepali. Around two weeks ago, Nepal had gifted two other rhinos–Bhadra and Rupasi–to the northern neighbour.Â Nepal had agreed to gift four rhinos to China around two years ago. Aryal says the date to bid farewell to Solti and Mitini has not been fixed, but it will be within next one month. It has been learned that the Park did not send all four rhinoceros together as the Park’s internal rule forbids sending out more than two animals in a fiscal year. Now, the new fiscal year has begun, hence the two will leave by August third week, according to Aryal. So far Nepal has gifted 26 rhinoceros to various countries including India, the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Bangladesh, Japan, Austria, Thailand, Burma and Pakistan. As per a recent census, there are 645 one-horned rhinos in Nepal. Of them, 605 are in Chitwan. Published on July 27th, Friday, 2018 10:38 AM 
Kathmandu, July 26 Doctors who have launched a protest programme in support of medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC got engaged in a clash with police personnel in Maharajgunj of Kathmandu on Thursday morning. The clash ensued after the security personnel tried to block the doctors from going towards the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar from the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital in Maharajgunj. After being blocked, the agitating health personnel chanted slogans against the government. They said citizens were children of the government, but the government failed to play the role of a guardian. The doctors staged a sit-in just outside the Teaching Hospital after police restricted their movement. Meanwhile, police detained around 30 doctors from the crowd and took them to Nepal Police Club. The umbrella organisation of Nepali medical doctors, Nepal Medical Association, and another organisation of Teaching Hospital’s resident doctors have announced different protest programmes in solidarity with Dr KC, who has been staging a fast-unto-death for last 27 days. Published on July 26th, Thursday, 2018 11:52 AM 
 Kathmandu, July 26 It has just been few years since the government of Nepal introduced machine readable passport (MRP). Now, the government wants to climb a step ahead with the introduction of electronic (e-)passport soon. Officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Passport say the e-passport will come into operation within next two years. It has been learned that the Department currently has a stock of around 1.5 million books to print MRPs. After the stock runs out, e-passports will be introduced, according to officials. The Council of Ministers has approved the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ request to introduce the new technology around two years ago. Though the approval for e-passport has already been granted, the Department is yet to conduct a detailed study on various available technologies, their pros and cons, criteria and standards requirement for them, and different uses among others. “Therefore, next steps of the process will continue only after the study,” a high official at the Department says. The International Civil Aviation Organisation has planned to replace the MRP with e-passport by the end of 2022. Accordingly, Nepal is also planning to meet the deadline. Nepal had introduced the MRP in 2011 and so far 5.5 million such passports have been distributed. The country’s passport used to be handwritten before that. Published on July 26th, Thursday, 2018 11:31 AM 
Kathmandu, July 26 The Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee is conducting a hearing with Acting Chief Justice Deepak Raj Joshee, whom the Constitutional Council has recommended for the position of Chief Justice at Supreme Court, on Thursday. It has been learned that the Committee has received five complaints against the Chief Justice. One of the charges is related to mention of different information on two academic certificates. His predecessor Gopal Parajuli had lost the powerful position owing to a similar dispute. The Committee, comprising 12 members of House of Representatives and three from National Assembly, has summoned Joshi for the meeting at 1 pm today. Joshi’s name will be forwarded to the President once the Committee endorses it. The position is vacantÂ since the removal of Parajuli from the position in March after it was found that he was already past his retirement age. Joshee is leading the apex court as Acting Chief Justice since then.   Published on July 26th, Thursday, 2018 11:09 AM 
Kathmandu, July 25 Officials of the Delhi Commission for Women and local activists have said the Commission on Tuesday night arrested as many as 16 Nepali women from traffickers’ clutches. It has been learned that the alleged victims were lured into following the traffickers as they were assured of lucrative jobs in Kuwait and Iraq via Delhi. The Commission is a statutory body under the Government of Delhi, which is a union territory of India. The Commission’s Chairperson Swati Maliwal held a meeting with Union Minister for Women and Child Development, Maneka Gandhi, and briefed her about the event today, according to reports. Meanwhile, some activists have accused the government of ignoring such incidents as police who were just close to the place where the girls were rescued could not know anything about the trafficking activities there.   Published on July 25th, Wednesday, 2018 3:00 PM 
Kathmandu, July 25 Nepali Congress General Secretary Shashanka Koirala says his party will launch a ‘jihad’ against autocracy of the incumbent government. He has called all leaders, cadres and supporters of the main opposition party to stand united against the government’s anti-democracy activities. Speaking at a function organised on the occasion of BP Memorial Day in Kathmandu on Wednesday, he also urged journalists loyal to the party to write and speak about the government’s undemocratic activities freely and fearlessly. Recalling that some cadres of the party’s youth wing, Nepal Tarun Dal, were attacked by the government few days back, Koirala said all such attacked would be countered. Speaking at the function, the party’s Vice-President Bimalendra Nidhi accused the government of carrying out activities against values and sentiments of the constitution. Nidhi also vented ire over the government for suppressing protest programmes launched by the party and its sister organisations. Published on July 25th, Wednesday, 2018 2:40 PM 
Kathmandu, July 25 Nepal Communist Party’s leader Subas Chandra Nembang, who is engaged in recent discussions on demands raised by medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC, says the government and Dr KC are ‘close to agreement’. Nembang, who accompanied Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli during a meeting with educationist Kedar Bhakta Mathema and Nepal Medical Council Chairman Dharma Kanta Banskota today, says the Prime Minister told them that his and Dr KC’s views about the sector are similar. Oli was only concerned about the politics being practised in Dr KC’s name, according to Nembang. Though Nembang claims the two sides are close to an agreement, he does not divulge what points they have agreed on. He, however, hints that the government will accept suggestions of Dr KC on the Medical Education Bill without withdrawing the Bill registered in Parliament. “The progress is positive on many issues and we cannot move back. There is almost an agreement between us,” he says, “There might be some attempts to foil the agreement. But the Prime Minister is positive about resolving this.” Published on July 25th, Wednesday, 2018 2:25 PM 
Kathmandu, July 25 Teams representing the government and medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC are holding another round of meeting in their bid to find a meeting point on the controversial medical education law, on Wednesday. Dr KC has been staging a fast-unto-death demanding formulation and implementation of the law as per recommendations forwarded by a panel led by educationist Kedar Bhakta Mathema for last 26 days. The formal talks, however, had begun just on Tuesday only. Dr KC earlier had been demanding that he would not hold talks with the team led by employee as it does not have a full authority to deal with the issues. The meeting was possible yesterday after some political leaders mediated and both sides showed some flexibility consequently. Both sides had claimed that the discussions held yesterday were positive. They even said they could forge an agreement today itself, thereby paving the way for the end of Dr KC’s strike. Published on July 25th, Wednesday, 2018 11:33 AM 
Saptari, July 24 Minister for Education, Science and Technology Giriraj Mani Pokharel says the government is ready to include demands and suggestions raised by medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC in the new medical education law. Dr KC has been staging a fast-unto-death for past 25 days demanding a new medical education law as per recommendations of a panel led by educationist Kedar Bhakta Mathema. He has been demanding that the government do not change any provision of the erstwhile Medical Education Ordinance while formulating the new law. But, Minister says the government made ‘slight revisions’ on the provisions of the ordinance. Speaking at a function organised in Rajbiraj of Saptari today, the Minister also maintained that police nominally used force while taking Dr KC to Kathmandu last week, but media blew it out of proportion. “Media have written news so as to create illusions,” he said, “All incidents that happened in Jumla have not been covered.” Published on July 24th, Tuesday, 2018 3:01 PM 
Kuala Lumpur, July 24 The Malaysian government says it has launched efforts to remove obstructions seen in the recruitment of Nepali migrant workers for Malaysian jobs. After the Nepal government took action against some businesses which were allegedly deceiving workers in the home country, the movement of Nepali workers to the country has been temporarily halted and the Nepal government wants to resume it only after the signing of a labour agreement between the two countries. Following the obstruction, an official of Kuala Lumpur government’s Ministry of Human Resources held a meeting with Nepal’s Acting Ambassador here, Kumar Raj Kharel, recently to solve the issue. The chief at the Ministry’s Policy and Planning Division, during the meeting, informed that the Malaysian government was aware of the issues raised by Nepal, according to Kharel. He further informs that officials of the Ministry of Human Resources and the Ministry of Home Affairs in Kuala Lumpur will hold another meeting to find an agreeable solution. Reaching the solution, however, will take some more time, according to him. Published on July 24th, Tuesday, 2018 2:40 PM 
Kathmandu, July 24 Resident doctors of the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital in Kathmandu have started a mass hunger strike in solidarity with medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC, who is on the 25th day of his fast-unto-death at the hospital. Around 150 doctors are staging the hunger strike from 10 am today at the hospital premises, outside the building where Dr KC has been kept. Just before the strike, they also staged a rally by putting black bands on their face at the hospital premises. They picketed the Institute of Medicine Dean’s Office there. They have been boycotting attending patients at all hospital units except the emergency and the intensive care unit for last few days, as a part of the protest they launched demanding that the government take initiatives to save Dr KC’s life. They have warned of making their protest programmes sterner as the government has not given any attention.   Published on July 24th, Tuesday, 2018 12:36 PM 
Kathmandu, July 24 Nepali Congress Vice-President Bimalendra Nidhi has warned that the main opposition party will announce additional protest prgorammes soon. The party had announced various nationwide protest prgorammes last week, claiming the current government’s activities were against principles and sentiments of democracy. Now, the party’s Central Working Committee meeting scheduled for this Friday would announce other protest programmes, according to him. Nidhi, speaking with journalists at the Tribhuvan International Airport upon his arrival from a weeklong Europe visit, said the protest programmes would continue till its demands are met. The leader also made it clear that the party would continue extending support to medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC as the party has also demanded that the new Medical Education Bill include all provisions of erstwhile Medical Education Ordinance. In another context, he called on the government not to suppress the peaceful protest launched by the party.   Published on July 24th, Tuesday, 2018 12:16 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 24 The Metropolitan Traffic Police Division says it has launched a crackdown on taxis and private light vehicles providing rental services, after it received complaints galore that they cheated customers. The Division has mobilised police in civvies and total 57 vehicles have been booked for overcharging passengers in past one week. Each of the vehicles providing services to passengers going to and from Tribhuvan International Airport have been fined Rs 3,000. The Division’s spokesperson, SP Surendra Prasad Mainali, says the Division decided to mobilise plainclothes cops after the number of complaints about them charging more significantly rose of late. Meanwhile, taxi entrepreneurs have also extended support to the crackdown. “Every taxi driver should agree to provide service on the fair calculated by the metre,” a leader of the entrepreneurs’ association, Arjun Gautam says, “But, the fair has to be increased.” There are 10,600 taxis are in operation in Kathmandu Valley. Published on July 24th, Tuesday, 2018 11:58 AM 
Saptari, July 23 The government of Province 2 has formed a panel to investigate into a violent incident in Maleth of Saptari in 2017 March. Five cadres of then Madheshi Morcha were killed in a police firing in the incident. The National Human Rights Commission had concluded its investigation into the case and made public its report recently. Some sections of the society including the Rastriya Janata Party Nepal had claimed the NHRC report did not dig out the truth. The RJPN is a member of the Province 2 ruling coalition. In this context, a meeting of the Provincial Council of Ministers on Monday formed the three-member committee led by Internal Affairs and Law Minister Gyanendra Yadav. Social Development Minister Nawal Kishor Sah and Land Management, Agriculture and Cooperative Minister Shailendra Sah are members of the panel. The team has been mandated to carry out an independent investigation and submit its report to the government within next 15 days. Published on July 23rd, Monday, 2018 1:31 PM 
Kathmandu, July 23 One of the two chairmen of Nepal Communist Party, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, has called on veteran leaders of small communist parties ofÂ  the country to join his ‘big’ party so as to achieve the common goal of communism together. The NCP was formed a couple of months ago with the merger of two biggest communist parties of Nepal: CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre. Speaking at a function organised in Kathmandu to mark the death anniversary of Pushpa Lal Shrestha, the first chief of Nepal’s first communist party established in 1950s, Dahal said veteran communist leaders of the country should join the NCP so that the opportunity to grow itself as a powerful communist party of the world would not be missed. He said the unity among all communist forces was necessary to leave no space for reactionaries to play against people. Dahal, however, maintained that conspiracies were being hatched against the unification campaign; hence the party’s ties with the people should be strengthened. The party’s senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal also spoke at the function. Published on July 23rd, Monday, 2018 12:59 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 23 The Department of Foreign Employment says it has received as many as 2,129 complaints about fraud cases with assurances of foreign employment in the recently concluded fiscal year 2017/18 (from mid-July 2017 to mid-July 2018). The complainants have claimed that they have been deceived of Rs 1.522 billion in total. In the previous year, the number of complaints was more than the number recorded in 2017/18. However, the amount the victims were defrauded of is significantly more in the later year. In 2016/17, the money that the victims they claimed to have lost was just Rs 758 million. Of total 2,129 complaints, 1,109 were against recruitment agents and middlemen whereas 1,020 were against recruitment companies, according to the Department’s spokesperson Uddhav Rijal. The alleged victims have demanded that they be given back Rs 753.7 million from the middlemen and Rs 768.3 million from the companies. The Department, however, has been successful in reclaiming Rs 201.9 million only, according to the Department. Of this amount, Rs 152.5 million was reclaimed from middlemen and Rs 49.5 million from the agencies. A total of 1,023 complaints have been settled without any formal trial. Published on July 23rd, Monday, 2018 12:45 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 22 The government of Nepal says it will let people who have already received Malaysian work visas before May 16 can get the labour permit and can fly their for job. Currently, the government has halted sending workers to Malaysia after it was found that many companies were deceiving aspirants in the process. Now, it wants to resume the supply of workers only after the two countries sign a labour agreement. Despite the ban, Malaysia has been the biggest receiver of Nepali human resources in the fiscal year 2017/18 that concluded recently. Therefore, recruitment agencies had demanded that those who have already obtain the visa as demanded. They say the number of women waiting for the resumption is around 1,000. The government, however, says the number is not more than 450. Responding to the demand, the government decided to let them fly if their visa was issued before May 16, the day when a decision was taken about launching a crackdown on recruitment companies and other related businesses. Published on July 22nd, Sunday, 2018 3:30 PM 
Kathmandu, July 22 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba says he has postponed his scheduled visit to India “considering latest political developments” in the country. It suggests that the Congress is planning to make its anti-government protest programmes more effective. Earlier, it was reported that Deuba and his wife Arzu Rana were scheduled to visit New Delhi of India for regular health checkup. They were about to take the flight this afternoon. But, the visit was postponed as recent political developments require the party President to stay in the country; therefore his visit was postponed, according to a statement issued by the party’s Chief Secretary Krishna Prasad Paudel.   Published on July 22nd, Sunday, 2018 2:53 PM 
Kathmandu, July 22 The umbrella organisation of Nepali journalists, Federation of Nepali Journalists, has claimed incidents against the free press and freedom of expression are on the rise in past three months. The FNJ recorded 25 incidents against the free press including attacks on journalists and media, threats of ‘physical action’, and obstruction in news coverage in the period of three months (from mid-April to mid-July). Eight journalists have survived threats whereas six have been abused. Two incidents of obstruction in news coverage have been reported whereas four persons have been attacked. Five journalists have been arrested. The FNJ says total 63 incidents against the free press were recorded in the period of one year (from mid-April 2017 to mid-April 2018). Meanwhile, FNJ General Secretary Ramesh Bista has accused the government of not being serious about incidents against the free press. “This is not a good sign of the stable government,” Bista says, “We have not felt that the government press-friendly.” Published on July 22nd, Sunday, 2018 2:35 PM 
Kathmandu, July 22 Locals living by the Kalanki-Naagdhunga road section of Prithvi Highway on Sunday morning staged a demonstration on the road protesting the delay in road maintenance. They have demanded that the government make sincere efforts to repair the road at the earliest so that the vehicular movement along the key highway connecting the capital with the rest of the country will be smooth and locals will be relieved of dust and smokeÂ  created by vehicles in congestion. In the protest, the locals carried placards that read “The government did not do, therefore we will do now”. Symbolically, they performed some construction jobs including pilling potholes on the street. The demonstrators also demanded that the government take action against the contractors for their failure to complete the works on time. Meanwhile, the demonstration also affected the traffic movement, both inward and outward, for some minutes. Published on July 22nd, Sunday, 2018 10:53 AM 
Kathmandu, July 22 Some supporters of medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC are preparing to stage a group hunger strike in solidarity of the fast-unto-death launched by the veteran activist for last 23 days. The supporters say they will stage the strike from 10 am to 5 pm at Basantapur Durbar Square in Kathmandu today. Solidarity for Dr KC Alliance, that comprises key civil society leaders as members, is organising the protest. The Alliance on Saturday had staged a rally in the capital in support to Dr KC. Speaking at the demonstration yesterday, they also threatened of raising the issue further if his demands are not addressed on time.   Published on July 22nd, Sunday, 2018 10:33 AM 
Kathmandu, JulyÂ  20 Australian Ambassador to Nepal Peter Budd says Australian investors are interested to work in solar energy production sector in Nepal. During a meeting with Minister for Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation Barsha Man Pun at the Ministry today, the Ambassador expressed his interest as Pun said Nepal has a huge possibility of energy generation but needs investment and technical support from its development partners. In response, the Ambassador said his government was ready to provide technical assistance and human resources to Nepali hydropower projects so as to support the Ministry’s target of producing 15,000 megawatt hydropower in next 10 years. Meanwhile, Electricity Generation Company under the Ministry and the Australian Embassy signed a memorandum of understanding to exchange technical assistance in the sector, today. The 12-point agreement was signed in the presence of Minister Pun. Published on July 20th, Friday, 2018 3:59 PM 
Kathmandu, July 20 Police in Kathmandu say they have arrested three persons in possession of tone kilogram of fake hold from the capital on Thursday. Acting on a tipoff, the Metropolitan Police Range in the district made the arrest, according to sources. The suspects have been identified as Raj Lama Tamang (23) from Dhaibung-3 of Sindhupalchok, Myangsing Lama (26) from Betini of Nuwakot, and Tasi Lhakoa Sherpa from Solukhumbu, according to police. They were involved in the transaction of fake gold in Koteshwor, Chabahil and Kapan areas, according to police. Police say two of the arrestees were arrested on fraud and robbery charges earlier also. The suspects have been made public during a press conference in Kathmandu today. (Updated) Published on July 20th, Friday, 2018 12:08 PM 
Kathmandu, July 20 Talks between the the government and representatives of medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC have become uncertain as the government has not yet decided on how to address his demands. Senior orthopaedic surgeon at the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital is on an indefinite hunger strike for the last 21 days, pressing the government to implement a new medical education rule as suggestions extended by the Kedar Bhakta Mathema-led panel. The government airlifted Dr KC to Kathmandu from Jumla for his treatment and to save his life following severe deterioration of his health yesterday. He had been staging the fast-unto-death at the Karnali Academy of Health Sciences (KAHS) in Jumla. Minister for Education, Science and Technology, Giriraj Mani Pokharel, says although discussions have been held regarding further talks with him, no decision has been made to that regard yet. The talks became uncertain after Dr KC’s side stuck to the demand that the government withdraw the Medical Education Bill registered in the House of Representatives, but the government did not agree on it. Dr KC has continued his strike at the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital at present. RSS Published on July 20th, Friday, 2018 11:44 AM 
Kathmandu, July 20 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has told top leaders of the Madhesh-centric Rastriya Janata Party Nepal that various demands raised by the party has turned irrelevant now. He has also suggested that the party review its agendas and concentrate on an extensive master plan for the development of Terai region. As members of the RJPN presidium led a delegation to the PM’s residence in Baluwatar on Thursday evening demanding that the government prepare and table a constitution amendment bill to meet its demands, Oli, one of the two chairpersons of powerful Nepal Communist Party, said the demand for amendment was also already irrelevant. The Prime Minister’s Secretariat, however, maintains that Oli clarified the leaders about the possibility of amendment on the basis of need and reasonableness. “Let’s discuss about shortcomings of the constitution, but let’s not get ourselves stuck there,” the Secretariat’s statement quotes the Prime Minister, “Let’s focus ourselves on development of the country.” RJPN’s Mahantha Thakur, Rajendra Mahato, Sharad Singh Bhandari, Mahendra Raya Yadav, Raj Kishor Yadav and Keshav Jha had participated in the meeting that lasted for around one and half hours. Published on July 20th, Friday, 2018 11:13 AM 
   Makwanpur, July 19 Nepali Congress senior leader Ramchandra Paudel has said that the KP Oli government is only worried about the welfare of the ‘mafia’ and not the people. Paudel, who was speaking at a programme in Makwanpur, said that the government does not care about the people. “The medical education bill that the government has presented in Parliament is a glaring example this,” said Paudel. The former minister added that the demands raised by medical educaiton reform activist Dr Govinda KC should be addressed. He also ordered the party rank and file to join Dr KC’s cause. “The communist government is not interested in socialism. It wants to create a group of elites who exploit the people,” he added. Paudel said the Nepali Congress was always committed to the welfare of the poor. Published on July 19th, Thursday, 2018 4:12 PM 
  Kathmandu, July 19 A meeting of the Legislative Parliament scheduled for Thursday afternoon has been postponed until July 27. Parliament Secretariat in a notice said that the meeting was postponed under special circumstances. Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada was to table the Insurance Bill during the meeting. Members of the opposition parties, including the Nepali Congress and Naya Shakti had been holding talks since Thursday morning to chalk out protests against the government for not heeding medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC’s demands. The opposition was likely to obstruct proceedings of the House if the meeting had not been postponed. Published on July 19th, Thursday, 2018 4:01 PM 
 Pokhara, July 19 Twenty-five people have been detained in Pokhara as they tried to show Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli black flags. Oli, who landed in Pokhare on Thursday afternoon, is due to attend the 15th general assembly of Pokhara Universtiy and address the Gandaki Province legislature in the afternoon. Those detained are learnt to be supporters of the Nepali Congress-aligned Nepal Students’ Union and the Baburam Bhattarai-led Naya Shakti. The incident comes as the main opposition, the Nepali Congress, intensified protests against the NCP government calling it autocratic. The Nepali Congress has said it will obstruct the proceedings of the assembly if Oli tries to address the House. Published on July 19th, Thursday, 2018 3:25 PM 
 Rukum, July 18 At least four persons died when a jeep carrying passengers met with an accident in Dharapani, Sisne Rural Municipality-5 of Rukum East district of Province 5, on Wednesday afternoon. The District Police Office says the four wheeler (Lu 1 Ja 2573) fell around 100 metres down the road from a cliff. There were around 10 passengers. The Office says police have been sent to the incident site for the rescue operation and the death toll may rise. DSP Prabin Lal Shrestha informed Onlinekhabar from the incident side that rescue operation is underway. Published on July 18th, Wednesday, 2018 3:29 PM 
Kathmandu, July 18 Nepal Medical Association, the umbrella organisation of Nepali medical doctors, says its members will shut down services except emergency at all government and private institutions across the country on Thursday demanding that the government meet all demands raised by medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC. Dr KC is on an indefinite hunger strike in Jumla of Karnali for last 19 days demanding that the government introduce a new medical education law as recommended by the Kedar Bhakta Mathema-led panel. The Association organised a press conference in Kathmandu today to announce that it would shut all services for one day as the government did not take initiatives to save the life of doctor who has been struggling to ensure rights to health and education to citizens as they are fundamental rights. Speaking at the meeting, the organisation’s General Secretary Lochan Karki said the organisation would announce the indefinite closure of all services except the emergency across Nepal if the government did not pay attention to the protest by Thursday night. The organisation has also warned that the government will be held responsible if the strike of doctors’ results in some untoward incident. The Association made it clear that it would continue supporting Dr KC. Published on July 18th, Wednesday, 2018 3:21 PM 
Pokhara, July 18 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is scheduled to address the Provincial Assembly meeting of Gandaki province in Pokhara on Thursday. The federal and provincial opposition Nepali Congress, however, has warned of obstructing the meeting. Congress provincial parliamentary committee’s deputy leader Mekh Lal Shrestha says the party will obstruct the meeting as per the decision made by its central leaders today. “We have already informed the Nepal Communist Party,” he says, “The meeting will not take place tomorrow. The party has directed us to obstruct.” NCP lawmaker Rajeev Pahari, however, has requested the opposition not to obstruct the meeting as the PM’s address is an opportunity for the entire Assembly and the province. “This is an opportunity of the Congress as well.” Meanwhile, the Assembly Secretariat has already made preparations for the meeting. It has already sent invitations to dignitaries. Published on July 18th, Wednesday, 2018 2:20 PM 
Kathmandu, July 18 Central office bearers of the main opposition Nepali Congress party on Wednesday morning discussed strategies to prepare for the protest programmes it has announced. The party on Tuesday had announced a series of nationwide programmes against the government claiming the government was acting against the constitution, democracy and people. The party’s General Secretary Shashanka Koirala says the officials gathered at the party President Sher Bahadur Deuba’s residence in Budhanilakantha of this morning this morning to discuss the preparations. Koirala says the meeting also discussed other issues related to contemporary Nepali politics. The party has announced the protest saying the ruling Nepal Communist Party violated the constitutional provision that the Speaker and the Deputy Speaker should be elected from different parties. Moreover, the government is involved in centralising power vehemently attacking the principle of separation of power and independent judiciary, claims the party.   Published on July 18th, Wednesday, 2018 11:44 AM 
Gorkha, July 18 Three persons including an infant have died after a landslide buried a house in Andheri, Shahid Lakhan Rural Municipality-6 of Gorkha district on Wednesday. When the landslide triggered by incessant rainfall buried the house of Nawaraj Kunwar; 10-year-old Prabina Kunwar, 20-year-old Saru Kunwar, and Saru’s eight-month-old son Unique died, according to locals. Local Ram Krishna Shrestha says the incident occurred at around 6:30 in the morning today. After the landslide buried the house, locals had demolished another wall to find them dead. Saru was a niece of the house owner Nawaraj and she was there to attend a religious function there. Two persons have sustained minor injuries in the incident. Meanwhile, the landslide has put some other houses also at risk. Police have sent a team to the site for rescue and relief operations. Published on July 18th, Wednesday, 2018 11:27 AM 
Khotang, July 18 Total Nepali youth including 14 from Khotang district, who had gone to Saudi Arabia for work, have been stranded there. They had gone to the Gulf country on February 13 but have been left in the lurch as they have neither got the work nor the pay as per the contract documents. It is said they got only 900 Saudi Riyals since they started work. But their employer company expelled them after they refused to go to work one day. Among the expelled youth, 14 are from Khotang district, said Bunadevi Bishwokarma, the assistant counsellor at the Safer Migration Project (Sami)’s information centre in Diktel. According to Bishwokarma, among the stranded Nepalis in Saudi Arabia, three are from Sindhuli district, two each from Sarlahi, Makawanpur and Dailekh districts and one each from Bhojpur, Ramechhap, Dadeldhura and Kailali districts. They went there through the Empower Overseas, a recruiting agency based at Mitra Park, Chabahil in Kathmandu. According to their contract, they had been sent to work at Sonmar Constructing Trading Advertising and Advertising Company. “The company expelled the Nepali workers on Monday when they refused to go to work in protest against the no pay. The company threw our bags and belongings out on the road,” Bishwokarma quoted Sheshan Shrestha of Jalpa, one of the victims, as telling her on the phone. The expelled youth have urged the information centre and other related bodies to take initiatives for their immediate rescue. RSS Published on July 18th, Wednesday, 2018 11:04 AM 
Kathmandu, July 17 The Supreme Court on Monday ordered the government to reinstate sacked chairperson of Film Development Board, Nikita Poudel. Earlier, the government had decided to sack all officials appointed politically by the Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government after August 30 last year citing the appointments violated the election code of conduct. But, dissatisfied Poudel had filed a writ at the apex court demanding her reinstatement. Responding to the writ, the court issued an interim order that she be given back the job till the final verdict. Poudel told Onlinekhar that she had already joined back the office and would attend a function to be organised to mark the launch of ‘box office system’. Published on July 17th, Tuesday, 2018 2:35 PM 
Kathmandu, July 17 The Mayor of Dharan Sub-Metropolitan City in Sunsari district of Province 1, Tara Subba, has died of pneumonia on Tuesday. The leader was undergoing treatment at Kathmandu-based Grande International Hospital for last two weeks. Just one week ago, he was transferred to the general ward from the intensive care unit citing improvements. He, however, breathed his last today. Subba had been experiencing different problems after undergoing a kidney transplant some years ago. The Nepal Communist Party leader was elected the Chief of city on behalf of the then CPN-UML in 2013 local level elections. It is likely that the Election Commission will hold a bipoll in the city to elect new mayor. Published on July 17th, Tuesday, 2018 2:17 PM 
Kathmandu, July 17 Minister for Finance Yubaraj Khatiwada says all 753 local governments will have at least one bank in their jurisdiction within next three months so that the recent government decision to pay all employees through banks will be effectively implemented. Speaking at a function organised in Kathmandu on Tuesday, Minister Khatiwada also ensured that the financial institutions would be provided with sufficient security to carry out their operations at the grassroots. He said the federal government would coordinate with respective local governments to ensure safety and security. In another context, the Minister also suggested that banks use renewable energy sources and fully digitise their operation systems. He said the use of technologies would also help the government control tax evasion. Published on July 17th, Tuesday, 2018 1:56 PM 
Kathmandu, July 17 The fiscal year 2017/18 has ended on Monday. Like in past years, the government has missed meeting expense and revenue targets this year too. As the current government holds a comfortable majority with the support of over two-thirds lawmakers, it had earlier claimed that it would be successful in achieving economic targets set for the fiscal year. Though it has already been nearly five months since the government took over, it could not show any concrete step for improvement. According to Joint Comptroller General Jagannath Devkota, the government spent 83.64 per cent of total allocated budget in past one year. For the year, the budget of Rs 1.278 trillion was announced, but the total spent amount is less than Rs 1.1 trillion, according to him. However, these data are preliminary calculations and final calculations may slightly vary, he adds. The status of capital expenditure is more miserable. Devkota informs that 78.73 per cent of the capital budget has been spent in one year. Around one fifth share of this budget has been spent in the final month just to prevent the money from automatic freezing. The spending rate of recurrent expenditure has stood at 86.62 per cent. Meanwhile, the government collected around 98 per cent of the revenue target set for this year. The revenue target itself, however, was already reduced through a mid-term review. The initial target was Rs 730 billion, and it was later corrected to Rs 728 billion. The government, however, collected around Rs 718 billion only. Published on July 17th, Tuesday, 2018 11:22 AM 
Kathmandu, July 17 The Kathmandu Metropolitan City says it will call for tenders for the the reconstruction of historical Ranipokhari pond, damaged during the 2015 earthquake, within one week. Likewise, the local government has stepped up its preparation to demolish the historical Haribhawan at Sundhara, where the KMC is operating its office. KMC assistant spokesperson Nawaraj Dhakal shared that tenders would be solicited for the demolition of Haribhawan and reconstruction of Ranipokhari at once. The call for bids will have the timeline of a month in maximum so as to speed up the reconstruction works. The devastating earthquake had caused serious damages to several historical monuments including Haribhawan in Sundhara and Ranipokhari in Ratnapark. Though the KMC was in a bid to demolish Haribhawan and expedite its rebuilding process a year back, the task did not gain momentum after the Department of Archaeology disallowed the move. The three-storied Haribhawan having the glorious history of around 100 years has been used for regular operation of the KMC since 2003. Likewise, the reconstruction of over 400-year-old Ranipokhari has been stalled after protests from different corners for rampant use of modern materials for rebuild. RSS   Published on July 17th, Tuesday, 2018 10:57 AM 
Kathmandu, July 16 The government on Monday recommended former Chief Election Commissioner Neel Kantha Uprety for the vacant position of Nepali Ambassador to India. A Cabinet meeting held this afternoon made the decision, according to Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali. The position was vacant after then Ambassador to India, Deep Kumar Upadhyay, resigned to contest House of Representatives elections from Nepali Congress party last year. Likewise, Udaya Raj Pandey has been recommended for the Ambassador to Malaysia. He has already served as an ambassador to United Arab Emirates. Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi has rejected the government offer to work as Nepal’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York. The government had recently recalled Durgra Prasad Bhattarai from the mission. Bairagi said he wanted to complete the full term as Secretary. Now, the government will send a joint secretary to New York. Published on July 16th, Monday, 2018 3:49 PM 
Kathmandu, July 16 The main opposition Nepali Congress obstructed the House of Representatives meeting on Monday after the government tried to begin the process to endorse the controversial Medical Education Bill without taking the party into confidence. As soon as the meeting began this afternoon, lawmakers of the party stood up from their chairs in protest. Then, Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara asked lawmaker Min Bahadur Bishwakarma to express concerns of his party. Bishwakarma told the House that the government drafted the bill in a way that it would revive problems in the sector. He also demanded that the government immediately take initiatives to save the life of medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC, who has been staging an indefinite hunger strike in Jumla, as his health condition has worsened. He announced that the House could not take its regular activities ahead as the government presented itself very irresponsible. Then, all opposition lawmakers stood up again in his support, halting the House business. Meanwhile, Speaker Mahara drew the attention of the government to the health condition of Dr KC. Published on July 16th, Monday, 2018 1:46 PM 
Kathmandu, July 16 Thanks to differences between the ruling Nepal Communist Party and the main opposition Nepali Congress over who should lead parliamentary committees, the formation of committees have become uncertain. According to the parliamentary regulations, there are 10 committees in the House of Representatives and four in the National Assembly. Besides, there are three ‘special’ committees. There are members of both houses in two of these committees whereas one is composed of members of the Lower House only. So far, only Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee has been formed. The Nepali Congress has been demanding that it be given the leadership positions in at least five of 17 committees whereas the ruling party says the opposition cannot demand more than the leadership in Public Accounts Committee of the House of Representatives. Claiming that the party’s demand for leadership in five committees is genuine, Congress Chief Whip Bal Krishna Khand says the delay in formation of committees is attributed to the ruling side. NCP leader Subas Chandra Nembang, however, says parliamentary conventions do not allow them to give leadership of other committees except the Accounts Committee to the opposition. Published on July 16th, Monday, 2018 1:32 PM 
Kathmandu, July 16 The government is preparing toÂ make it mandatory for employers to pay their employees salary through banking channels mandatory. However, they will be given a certain time to implement the decision. According to the reliable government sources, such deadlines will be different for government offices, nonprofit NGOs, private profit companies, among others. A Cabinet meeting to be held today is likely to make a decision in this regard. Earlier, the Labour Regulation was amended to insert such provision. The government hopes that such a system will ensure that the labourers get their pay as mentioned in their employment contract so that the minimum wage standards get implemented everywhere. Officials say the preparation was made after it was found that some schools, hospitals, banks and financial institutions and private firms are paying their staff much lower than the standards set by the governments. When the new provision will come into effect, the employers have to submit details of payments made to the staff when they apply for their registration renewal. Published on July 16th, Monday, 2018 1:08 PM 
Kathmandu, July 15 The House of Representatives on Sunday endorsed a condolence motion on the death former lawmaker Mohammad Mustak Alam. A member of the second Constituent Assembly, former state minister Alam, 53, had died in course of the treatment in Kathmandu on Friday. He was suffering from a heart related problem and was undergoing treatment at Shahid Gangalal Heart Centre in Bansbari. He represented Rautahat-2 then on behalf of the Madheshi Janaadhikar Forum in the 2013 Parliament. Of late, he was affiliated to ruling Nepal Communist Party. The House meeting held today endorsed the motion and observed one minute silence to pay tribute to him. Then, the meeting was adjourned till 1 pm on Monday. Customarily, Parliament meetings do not discuss other agendas after endorsing a condolence motion. Published on July 15th, Sunday, 2018 2:06 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 15 The Truth and Reconciliation Commission, one of the two bodies formed to settle decades-long conflict era cases by applying international principles of transitional justice, has been divided over whether to extend the term of local peace committees. The Local Peace Committee was formed in each district affected by the war by then Ministry of Peace and Reconstruction so as to facilitate the process of post-war reconstruction. Their current term is expiring Monday. In this context, two members of the five-member Commission want the term to be extended whereas three are against it. It is interesting to note that those lobbying for the extension–TRC Chairman Surya Kiran Gurung and member Madhavi Bhatta–are considered close to the main opposition Nepali Congress whereas three other members–Manchala Jha, Leela Udasi and Shree Krishna Subedi–are said to be loyal to ruling Nepal Communist Party. Gurung and Bhatta want the term extended because the Nepali Congress has leadership in over 75 per cent such peace committees, sources claim. But, three other members have said the committees are useless as the Ministry of Peace has already been dissolved and the committee are incapable of handling other assignments. Gurung and Bhatta, however, view that the committees are needed to investigate into complaints it received from conflict victims at the local level. Published on July 15th, Sunday, 2018 1:42 PM 
 Birgunj, July 15 The Central Regional Office of Revenue Investigation Department has arrested a jeweller from Birgunj of Parsa district for allegedly masterminding the smuggling of one kilogram gold and mobilising mules for the crime. Earlier on June 29, police in the district had arrested Santosh Kumar Kalwar from Haripur-9 of Sarlahi district in possession of the precious yellow metal. After an investigation, the revenue officials arrested Ram Babu Singh, the owner of Deepak Jewellers’ at Link Road of Birgunj. Chief Investigation Officer of theÂ Central Regional Office of Revenue Investigation Department, Dibya Raj Pokharel, says Singh has been detained for interrogation as Kalwar said he was mobilised by the trader and he was just a mule. Singh has been kept at the custody of Jitpur Police Post. Further investigation is underway. Published on July 15th, Sunday, 2018 1:26 PM 
Kathmandu, July 15 Sources close to the ruling Nepal Communist Party say the government is likely to form an official team on Sunday to hold talks with medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC, who has been staging a fast-unto-death in Jumla of Karnali demanding various reforms in Nepal’s medical education sector. It has already been 16 days since the senior orthopaedic surgeon at the Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital launched the strike. However, no official efforts have been made yet to resolve the issue. As a preparation to convince Dr KC for the talks, NCP leader Narayan Kaji Shrestha has begun conversations with his aides including Dr Abhishek Raj Singh. Shrestha has been telling Singh that Dr KC must come back to Kathmandu for his treatment as there are no ICU facilities in Jumla and his health is ever worsening. Dr Singh, however, says the government should make sincere efforts for that. They have not begun discussions on demands of Dr KC and the two sides are adamant on their opposing stances till now. Notwithstanding the progress made in the talks between Shrestha and Dr Singh, the government will announce a team for the talks today. At first, it will request Dr KC to end his strike, come to Kathmandu and join the talks table. If that strategy does not work, the government is preparing to use force to take him back to Kathmandu and provide treatment, Education Minister Giriraj Mani Pokharel has already revealed. Published on July 15th, Sunday, 2018 10:22 AM 
 Kathmandu, July 13 Five Deputy Inspectors General of Police contesting for the post of Additional Inspector General of Police have retired from their post on Friday. They had been competing for three vacant posts for Additional Inspector General of Police. Uttam Kumar Karki, Pawan Prasad Kharel, Chhavi Lal Joshi, Gyan Bikram Shah and Sharad Chand retired due to the 30-year service rule. The DIGs joined the service as police inspectors on July 13, 1988. However, the retired DIGs have expressed dissatisfaction over the government’s failure to carry out their appraisal process on time as they had to retire without promotion. The DIGs also complained that the government’s behaviour unfair towards them was unfair. Meanwhile, a farewell programme was organised for the DIGs. Published on July 13th, Friday, 2018 4:11 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 13 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli visited former state minister and Nepal Communist Party member Mohammad Mustak Alam at the Bansbari-based Shahid Gangalal National Heart Center to learn about his condition on Friday. Alam was admitted to the Gangalal Hospital after suffering a heart attack on Thursday. Similarly, the Prime Minister also directed doctors involved in the treatment to leave no stones unturned for the treatment.Â The Prime Minister wished for his speedy recovery. Alam was the CPN-UML party candidate for the in Rautahat-2 federal Parliament seat during the federal elections last year. Published on July 13th, Friday, 2018 3:42 PM 
Kathmandu, July 13 Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), Chandra Singh Saud, who has recently been sacked by a Cabinet decision to scrap all political appointments made by erstwhile Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government after August 30 last year, has filed a case at the Supreme Court demanding reinstatement. Saud has been claiming that the decision does not apply to him as he was selected from an open competition. It has been learned that the apex court will begin the hearing today itself or on Sunday. After removing Saud from the position, the government has already assigned Finance Ministry Under Secretary Ramesh Aryal to lead NESPE. Earlier, on Thursday, the Court had issued an interim order staying the sacking of Credit and Deposit Guarantee Fund CEO Bishnu Babu Mishra and Nepal Telecommunications Authority Chairman Digambar Jha. Published on July 13th, Friday, 2018 11:23 AM 
 Birgunj, July 13 Industrialists in Birgunj city of Parsa district say the new minimum wage recently fixed by the government to implement from the beginning of new fiscal year next week is too high and they cannot pay it. Few days after the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security decided that a worker should be paid at least Rs 13,450 a month, the Birgunj Chamber of Commerce and Industry protested the decision, urging the government to correct it. The Chamber has also accused the government of fixing the remuneration without conducting a detailed study and without holding proper consultations with stakeholders concerned including the industrialists. It says the Federation of Nepalese Chambers of Commerce and Industry, whom the government claims to have consulted, does not represent all entrepreneurs in the country. Instead, some other big chambers should also have been asked for suggestions. The industrialists have warned that the decision may obstruct the smooth functioning of factories, ultimately delaying the economic growth of the country. Published on July 13th, Friday, 2018 11:04 AM 
 Chautara, July 13 Five persons were killed in a jeep accident in Panchpokhari Thangpal Rural Municipality of Sindhupalchok district on late Thursday evening. The four-wheeler (Lu 1 Cha 999) was heading towards Bhotang from Melamchi when it fell off around 400 metres down the road from Phyaphulla Danda, near the border between Thangpalkot and Thangpaldhap, yesterday. Three persons died on the spot whereas two breathed their last on the way to a health facility in Melamchi, according to police. The victims have been identified as Bhim Bahadur Tamang (75), Jayarami Tamang (55), Nani Tamang (53), Bodhom Tamang (56) and Sunmaya Tamang (25), all locals of Bhotang. Meanwhile, those who sustained injuries in the accident have been referred to Kathmandu for further treatment from the Melamchi health facility, according to Police Inspector Parashu Ram Malla. Of them, the driver is said to be critical as he was not taken to the hospital on time owing to bad weather and nighttime. A helicopter was sent for the rescue, but it had returned due to weather problems. Published on July 13th, Friday, 2018 10:38 AM 
Kathmandu, July 12 The Rastriya Prajatantra Party has demanded that four parties, which are represented in the Federal Parliament but have not got the status of national party, be included in the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee. The 15-member Committee, consisting three members of the National Assembly and 12 of the House of Representatives, has been formed few days ago. The Committee comprises lawmakers of just four ‘national’ parties including Nepal Communist Party, Nepali Congress, Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal and Rastriya Janata Party Nepal. Speaking at the House of Representatives today, RPP lawmaker Rajendra Lingden demanded that representatives of RPP, Nepal Workers and Peasants Party, Rastriya Janamorcha and Naya Shakti also be included in the Committee. The four parties have one member each in the House. Lingden was of the view that forming the Committee without including all parties in Parliament was against parliamentary norms and values.   Published on July 12th, Thursday, 2018 1:56 PM 
Kathmandu, July 12 Nepal Communist Party Chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal has urged World Bank representatives to consider investment in Nepal’s highly prioritised sectors, stating that Nepal has already paved its path towards economic prosperity. Dahal said so during a meeting with the World Bank’s Country Manager Faris Hadad-Zervos at his residence in Lalitpur today. According to Dahal’s Secretariat, the former Prime Minister mentioned that it was a golden time for the country to make economic stride following the political stability achieved in 70 years. Stating that he was expecting further support, recommendations and cooperation in Nepal’s economic agenda, Dahal explained,”We will determine our priorities and our priorities remain in the development works that the people could relate to.” According to him, mega hydropower projects and tourism were among the top priorities that Nepal has set. On the occasion, the World Bank’s Country Director expressed his happiness over the political stability achieved in Nepal. Stating that the World Bank had experienced economic development of many countries, Zervos was confident that those experiences would be useful to Nepal. Zervos reaffirmed, “We will focus on infrastructure development and we will work under the government. Your progress is our achievement.” RSS Published on July 12th, Thursday, 2018 1:31 PM 
Kathmandu, July 12 Elected people’s representatives in Kathmandu Metropolitan City have expressed their dissatisfaction over their salary. Therefore, through a municipal council meeting, they have urged the Province 3 government to increase their facilities and services ‘keeping the inflation in mind’. A ward official said that they would not accept any services and facilities until their demands were met. The provincial government has set the Mayor’s monthly salary to Rs 46,000. But the metropolis has demanded that it be increased to Rs 55,000. Similarly, the metropolis has proposed to increase the salary of deputy mayor and ward chair to Rs 48,000 and Rs 40,000, respectively. The source informed that the proposal to increase the salary of ward member to Rs 20,000 had been sent to the provincial government. The ward members receive Rs 7,000 every month now. “The ward members cannot reach people’s doorsteps with Rs 7,000 as the amount is too low. The government must adjust the price to a respectable amount,” he said. However, officials of Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration said, “If we increase the salary as per their demand, other local governments will also get influenced for the same. They are finding the salary too low because they have invested huge amount during elections.” Published on July 12th, Thursday, 2018 12:25 PM 
Kathmandu, July 12 Meteorologists have said rainfall is likely to continue in most parts of Nepal till Saturday. They have called on members of the public and stakeholders to stay alert against possible floods and landslides. Meteorologist Bibhuti Pokharel informs Onlinekhabar that the continuous rainfall is likely from the eastern part of the country to the west. A public notice issued by the Meteorological Forecasting Division under the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology states that central and western regions of the country will be more affected due to the rainfall. However, some places of the eastern region will also be affected. Heavy rainfall has been predicted for Thursday night, Friday daytime and night. Published on July 12th, Thursday, 2018 11:07 AM 
Kathmandu, July 11 The central bank of Nepal says all commercial banks of the country should establish provincial offices in seven provinces of the country within next one year. Unveiling the new monetary policy for the next fiscal year 2018/19, Nepal Rastra Bank Governor Chiranjibi Nepal said the banks should establish the provincial offices by the end of the year (mid-July 2019). Meanwhile, the policy states that banks and financial institutions are not required to obtain approval from the central bank to open their branches at municipal and rural municipal level so that their services will be easy and effective, and the access to banks will significantly increase. They, however, are required to seek permission from the NRB to open branches in metropolitan cities and submetropolitan cities. The policy has it that the net interest spread of banks has to be below 4.5 per cent. Earlier, it was 5 per cent. The provision is likely to infuriate the bankers as they were demanding the increase in the rate.   Published on July 11th, Wednesday, 2018 4:09 PM 
Kathmandu, July 11 Minister of State for Health and Population Padma Kumari Aryal says the government is ready to meet demands put forth by medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC. Demanding that the government formulate and implement a new medical education law in line with the report of educationist Kedar Bhakta Mathema-led panel, Dr KC is on a fast-unt0-death in Jumla of Karnali for past two weeks. Whereas Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and Minister for Education, Science and Technology Giriraj Mani Pokharel have reportedly stated that the government could not address some key demands of the veteran orthopaedic surgeon, MinisterÂ  Aryal said at an interaction in Kathmandu that the government was serious about the demands. The leader of Prime Minister and Education Minister’s Nepal Communist Party, however, maintained that some of his demands were controversial and Dr KC should also be flexible for the resolution. In another context, she said the government would do everything possible to save Dr KC’s life. Published on July 11th, Wednesday, 2018 3:50 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 11 The Nepal Communist Party has endorsed its party regulation at the Central Secretariat meeting held this morning. The meeting held at the Prime Minister’s official residence in Baluwatar endorsed the regulation, informed the party’s Spokesperson Narayan Kaji Shrestha. Talking to journalists after the meeting, he said, “Today, we gave a final shape to the regulation, which is an important component of the party statute. This will go for publication soon.” Likewise, Shrestha also stated that another meeting would be organised to make a work plan to merge sister organisations and party committees of erstwhile CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre as the two parties have merged into the NCP now. The party had organised a meeting on Tuesday to finalise the regulation. However, it was postponed until Wednesday morning. Published on July 11th, Wednesday, 2018 12:42 PM 
 Chitwan, July 11 The Narayangadh-Muglin road in Chitwan district has caved in near Gaighat of the district, resulting in the obstruction in one-way vehicular movement since Wednesday morning. Experts have been called to study causes behind the fall. The engineers, however, have suspected that the disaster’s root lies in the river that flows beneath the road. According to Engineer Shiva Khanal of the Narayangadh-Mugling Road Expansion Project, a minor crack was seen in the beginning, but it later started to expand. The road has caved in around one foot down. The caved-in section is around 30 metre long and seven metre wide. According to Assistant Residential Engineer, Gyanendra Ghimire, the Project might need to cut the wall and expand the road on the other side if the road continues to cave in. The expert team will reach the incident site today to finalise what should be done further to repair the road. Published on July 11th, Wednesday, 2018 11:40 AM 
Kathmandu, July 11 Medical reform social activist Dr Govinda KC, who is on an indefinite hunger strike in Jumla, has clarified that he is ready to hold talks with the government. Issuing a statement, KC condemned the government’s statement which said that he was not ready for the meeting. Dr KC also urged the government to do necessary homework before the talks. Stating that his attention was drawn towards the government’s statement, KC clarified that a team would be sent to Kathmandu immediately if the government was ready for the negotiation. He further suggested that the government give up party-centric selfishness and ensure rights of around 30 million Nepalis. Dr KC is on a fast-unto-death at Karnali Academy of Health Sciences for the past 12 days demanding formulation and implementation of a medical education law in line with the recommendations put forth by a panel led by educationist Kedar Bhakta Mathema. Published on July 11th, Wednesday, 2018 10:16 AM 
 Chitwan, July 10 Two-way traffic along the Narayangadh-Muglin road in Chitwan district has resumed from Tuesday afternoon. Several landslides including ‘a big one’ at Ghumaune of the district had obstructed the road section since 3:45 am this morning. According to Information Officer of the Narayangadh-Muglin Road Project, Shiv Khanal, vehicular movement resumed after removing the landslide debris at Ghumaune as soon as the rainfall stopped earlier this afternoo. The vehicles stuck in traffic jam have started moving towards their respective destinations, he stated. As the monsoon season is active across the country, rainfall-caused landslides have been obstructing the road almost every day. Published on July 10th, Tuesday, 2018 2:39 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 10 Police have arrested three persons on the charge of betting over ongoing FIFAÂ  World Cup matches, from Kathmandu recently. Those arrested are Mukhiya Lama (42), Subash Gurung (24) and Mukhiya Gurung (33) of Nisang Rural Municipality-7 in Manang district. A team deployed from the Durbarmarg Metropolitan Police Circle arrested the trio along with Rs 400,000 from their possession. They were arrested from Jyatha in the Capital with the money, informed police. A public office case has been registered against them. Police are looking into the case. Betting is considered a form of gambling, and hence is a crime as per Nepali laws. Published on July 10th, Tuesday, 2018 1:33 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 10 One person was killed on the spot and nine others were injured in a jeep accident in Panchthar district of eastern Nepal on Tuesday morning. The deceased has been identified as Kailash Adhikari, a permanent resident of Chyangthapu-1 in the district. The jeep (Me 1 Ja 2051) lost its control and fell some 300 metres down the road at Chaite Bheer of Yangbar Rural Municipality-3 in the district. As many as 10 persons were travelling on the vehicle. According to Panchthar District Police Office, the injured have been rescued and rushed to a hospital. Police have not yet revealed their health condition. Investigators are looking into the case.   Published on July 10th, Tuesday, 2018 10:54 AM 
Kathmandu, July 9 Minister for Finance Yubaraj Khatiwada says the government will conduct a survey in key rivers of the country to examine the feasibility of launching a ship service for the first time in the country. Whereas members of the public have been mocking the government for repeated mentions of the ship project in speeches of the Prime Minister and the ministers, the Finance Minister said a preliminary feasibility study would begin next fiscal year that begins next week. Responding to questions of lawmakers at the National Assembly meeting today, he, however, said the government was still not clear which ministry or department would look after the issue. He maintained that the government was making preparations for the service ‘at the policy level.’ In another context, the Minister defended the annual budget statement that he presented on May 29, claiming it was balanced on the basis of geography and population among other indicators. He added that it also internalised sentiments of federalism. Published on July 9th, Monday, 2018 2:09 PM 
Kathmandu, July 9 Nepal Police Headquarters says at least 323 people died in various natural disasters in past three months across the country. The Headquarters says floods, landslides, lightnings, fires among other similar incidents killed 323 people from the beginning of current Bikram Sambat year (April 14, 2018). In total, police have recorded 1,114 such incidents. Total 57 persons are missing in the incidents. The incidents affected 3,298 families in total; 720 houses were lost whereas 885 houses received damages. Likewise, 1,297 cattle lost their lives as 165 sheds were destroyed. Dhanusha has the highest number of deaths (14) in past three months. It is followed by Morang (12), Jhapa (11) and Siraha (11). Published on July 9th, Monday, 2018 1:28 PM 
Kathmandu, July 9 The government claims it will provide employment opportunities to 100,000 Nepali youth under the Prime Minister Self-Employment Programme in the upcoming fiscal year. Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security, Gokarna Bista, informed that preparations to establish employment information centres in all 753 local levels across the country so as to facilitate the Programme were underway. Responding to question raised at the National Assembly regarding the budget allocation for his ministry today, Minister Bista stated that job opportunities would be provided to the grassroots through the Programme. Bista added that the information centres would also certify unemployment status of youth. He also indicated that the government would provide unemployment allowance if the government failed to provide them jobs. The Minister also said that the government was conscious about bringing remittance through the banking system, providing skills to Nepali migrant workers before going to foreign countries, and managing the the foreign employment sector in overall. Likewise, the government was preparing to set minimum wages for the labourers in a bid to create a good relation between employers and employees, according to him. Published on July 9th, Monday, 2018 1:10 PM 
Kathmandu, July 9 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli wants to hold talks with medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC, who is on a hunger strike demanding medial reforms at Karnali Academy of Health Sciences in Jumla. According to sources, the Prime Minister is ready to hold talks with Dr KC over the phone. The Prime Minister’s Secretariat has requested the Nepal Medical Association, the umbrella organisation Nepali medical doctors, to create the environment for the talks. Accordingly, President of the Association, Dr Mukti Ram Shrestha, has conveyed the Secretariat’s message to Dr KC. However, no phone call has been received yet, informed Dr Kishore KC, who is attending to Dr KC in Jumla. Meanwhile, the Association held a meeting with Prime Minister Oli on Sunday evening demanding that the government take initiatives to save the life of Dr KC. The Association had also warned of shutting all services except emergency if the government fails to take any step within 72 hours. Published on July 9th, Monday, 2018 12:05 PM 
Kathmandu, July 8 The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology has handed over letters to 15 officials of various organisations under it informing that their appointment was cancelled. Earlier last week, the government had decided to revoke all decisions of political appointments made after August 30 last year by then Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government. Accordingly, the officials of communication agencies have been relieved of their duties, according to the Ministry’s spokesperson Ram Chandra Dhakal. Those given the letters are Digambar Jha and Hem Kumar Shrestha of Nepal Telecommunications Authority; Basanta Prakash Upadhyaya of Gorkhapatra Sansthan; Gangadhar Parajuli, Govinda Bahadur Koirala and Bimala Bhandari of Minimum Wage Fixation Committee. Likewise, Nikita Paudel and Bijaya Deuba of Film Development Board; Umesh Khadka and Devi Ram Parajuli of Film Censor Board; Kiran Chitrakar and Govinda Dhital of Nepal Television and Ekaraj Pathak of Rastriya Samachar Samiti also lost their jobs. Published on July 8th, Sunday, 2018 2:55 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 8 Mauritius has proposed the Kathmandu government to officially take Nepali workers to the East African country for job opportunities. Mauritius has shared a draft for the memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security stating that the country could provide suitable job opportunities to Nepalis. Nepalis have been personally opting for employment in Mauritius as labor demands from their previously favourate destinations–Malaysia and Saudi Arabia–are decreasing of late. With an aim to address the problem, the government has also been trying to open doors for employment in other countries as well. According to sources at the Ministry, everything will be finalised after studying Mauritiusâ€™s economy, labour laws, environment, and the minimum wage. Likewise, discussions on providing more jobs for Nepalis in Canada and Portugal have also started, informed high-level officials at the Ministry. Published on July 8th, Sunday, 2018 2:39 PM 
Kathmandu, July 8 The central bank of Nepal says it is preparing to make public the new monetary policy for next fiscal year 2018/19 on Thursday, July 12. The new fiscal year begins on July 17. The draft of monetary policy has already been finalised and the board of directors of Nepal Rastra Bank is reviewing the document currently, according to an NRB source. NRB joint spokesperson Govinda Nagila says the board discussed the policy this morning as well. It, however, will take a couple of days more to endorse the document. Therefore, the next meeting of the board is likely to take place on Monday. Another official, however, says the date has not been fixed yet and the policy may come out from Wednesday to Friday. “Whatever, it will not be later than Friday.”   Published on July 8th, Sunday, 2018 12:47 PM 
Kathmandu, July 8 Nepal Sanskit University Vice-Chancellor Kul Prasad Koirala has accused the government of barring him from flying to Canada at the last minute in an insulting manner. Leading a seven-member delegation from the university, Koirala was scheduled to fly to take part in the 17th World Sanskrit Seminar that will begin in Vacouver on Monday. However, just one hour before the boarding time, police took him under control from the Tribhuvan International Airport saying the Prime Minister would like to see him. “I told the police official that I could not go as I might miss the flight. But he said it would not take a long time and assured I could manage to return before the schedule,” he told Onlinekhabar, “While six other friends boarded the flight, I was taken to the PM’s residence.” The flight was scheduled for 8 pm. Staff at the PM’s residence made him wait till 8 before informing that the PM did not have time for him today. Then he was forced to return home. Koirala said the government ‘insulted’ him because of political reasons as he was close to the main opposition Nepali Congress. The government spokesperson and Minister for Communications and Information Technology Gokul Banskota, however, said he was taken to Baluwatar to inquire why he was embarking on the trip as the government had not given the permission. But, the government had already approved the visit and allocated Rs 1 million for the trip, according to Koirala.   Published on July 8th, Sunday, 2018 12:26 PM 
Kathmandu, July 8 The Chief Executive Officer of National Reconstruction Authority, Yubaraj Bhusal, has been deposed from his position, on Sunday. The incumbent government had recently decided to nullify all the appointments made after August 30 last year by Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government stating that making political appointments was illegal while the election code of conduct was into effect. A day after the decision, Bhuwas was barred from meeting the Prime Minister. The Office of the Prime Minister had sent an official letter to the Authority on Friday. However, Bhusal said that he could not read the letter that day as it had arrived late. “The duty hour is short on Friday. The received the information at 5:03 pm that day. So, I told them that I would receive the letter on Sunday,” he said. Bhusal was appointed for the post on October 23 last year. Bhusal, however, said that he would respect the decision of the government. “I am yet to read the letter and the tone used in it. But, I respect the decision.” Published on July 8th, Sunday, 2018 11:59 AM 
Kathmandu, July 6 The National Assembly has appointed three members for the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee on Friday. The Committee, which will carry out hearings for constitutional and diplomatic appointments, will comprise members from both the houses. A meeting of the Assembly held on Friday endorsed the names of Suman Pyakurel, Nanda Chapai, and Jitendra Narayan Dev. The House of Representatives is yet to finalise the list for the Committee, but Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara has pressed the parties to submit their names at the earlier. But, the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, is refusing to provide names from its side demanding that leadership positions of House panels be shared among parties on the basis of their overall strengths. Of the total 16 House committees (10 of House of Representatives, four of National Assembly and two joint), the Congress has demanded that it get leadership in four panels. However, the ruling Nepal Communist Party says it will let the Congress lead the Public Accounts Committee only in the Lower House.     Published on July 6th, Friday, 2018 1:02 PM 
Kathmandu, July 6 The main opposition party, Nepali Congress, on Friday has urged the government not to create a confrontation between communist and democratic forces of the country as it might give reactionaries a space to play. Speaking at the National Assembly meeting today, Congress lawmaker Jitendra Dev accused the government of trying to boast that it could move ahead by dominating the opposition. He added that both democratic and communist sides would suffer if they did not move together. Dev was concerned about recent decisions made by the government including the one to scrap all political appointments made by Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government after August 30 last year. He was of the view that the government tried to take revenge with the decision and it could instigate a new conflict in the country. Therefore, he urged the government to correct the decision. Published on July 6th, Friday, 2018 12:45 PM 
Kathmandu, July 6 Chief Executive Officer of Nepal Stock Exchange (NEPSE), Chandra Singh Saud, has warned of moving the court if the government fires him. The government has recently decided to scrap all the appointments made by the Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government since August 30, 2017 stating that they were against the election code of conduct. But, Saud claims that his appointment is not political, therefore the decision does not affect him. The NEPSE CEO says he was appointed to the position though an open competition. Saud has been attending office as he has not received any official letter from the government about his sacking yet. “I left various other jobs and got this appointment after passing through the open competition. If the government fires me, it will be an injustice. I will go to the court then,” he says. Meanwhile, the official further claims that appointments made at Credit Guarantee Fund (DCGF) will not be scrapped despite the Cabinet decision.               Published on July 6th, Friday, 2018 12:14 PM 
Pokhara, July 5 Pro-identity politics leaders belonging to various ethnic communities have protested the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s decision to name Province 4 Gandaki. After naming Pokhara as the provincial capital, the Province 4 Assembly is preparing to give the new federal unit a name. In this context, the NCP, which commands a comfortable majority in the Assembly, on Wednesday has endorsed Gangaki as the name, meaning the Assembly will accept the name with majority votes. But, ethnic leaders argue that ‘Gandaki’ does not reflect inclusiveness of various castes and creeds, but a centralised and racist mindset. Various organisations representing local Gurung and Magar communities issued a statement today, demanding that the province be named ‘Tamuwan Magarat’ which reflects identifies of the two communities. “We remind that moving ahead by ignoring the fundamental principles of identity will be a blunder for the country and its people.” The Nepal Federation of Indigenous Nationalities (NEFIN), which claims itself to be the umbrella organisation of all indigenous communities in the country, has also supported the protest. Published on July 5th, Thursday, 2018 3:35 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 5 As many as five Additional Inspectors General (AIGs) of Armed Police Force promoted by the Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government will be losing their job as well as their AIG status. As an effect of the Cabinet’s decision to scrap the decisions made by the Deuba-led government, the AIGs will now retire as Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIGs), informed a minister present in the meeting. Those AIGs losing their job include Janaki Raj Bhattarai, Subodh Adhikari, Nirakar Bikram Shah, Khadananda Chaudhary and Rajesh Shrestha. A committee formed under the leadership of the then Secretary at Home Ministry, Mohan Krishna Sapkota, on January 16 had decided to promote them to the post of AIG. The officials at the APF Headquarters have claimed that they were promoted after completing the required criteria and process. Meanwhile, it has been learned that Home Secretary Prem Bahadur Rai had called some AIGs to the Ministry and indicated them of the government action a few days ago. Rai had asked them to resign before the action to get the senior-level facilities after the job. In reply, an AIG also said that they would go to the court if they were removed. Published on July 5th, Thursday, 2018 3:21 PM 
Kathmandu, July 5 The government of Nepal on Wednesday decided to increase the number of customs and tax offices in the country. A Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday night approved the new organisational structure of Ministry of Finance, significantly increasing the number of main customs offices and inland revenue offices. Five small customs office have been upgraded as customs offices. Now, the number of main customs offices has reached 28 and small customs offices 138. Meanwhile, the government decided to transform 13 taxpayer service offices into inland revenue offices. Likewise, three existing inland revenue offices have been promoted as mid-scale taxpayer offices. The Large Taxpayer Office will be kept as it is. The new structure will come into effect from the new fiscal year which begins on July 17. It has been learned that the government made the bureaucratic reform to achieve its revenue collection target for the next fiscal year. The government wants to increase revenue by 35 per cent next year. Published on July 5th, Thursday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Itahari, July 5 The Sunsari District Administration Office has said there is no risk of erosion in the Saptakoshi River as of nowalthough the water level has been increasing following rain in various parts of the eastern region recently. It is said the water level in the Saptakoshi is fluctuating with the level of rainfall. Incessant rain in the eastern hilly districts as well as in Terai over the past few days has affected normal life. Various places in the plains have been inundated. The Sunsari Office says embankments on eastern and western banks of the Saptakoshi River are not at risk of erosion and also the risk of rapid cutting by the river current is not there. However, the administration has urged public for adopting precaution in settlements near the riverbanks in case of rain. The volume of water flow in the Koshi River was measured at 138,060 cubic foot per second (cusec) at 4 pm on Wednesday, the highest water discharge in the river so far this year, the information department at Koshi Barrage Control Room stated. Twenty-two out of the 56 sluice gates of the Koshi Barrage have been opened for easing the water flow. RSS Published on July 5th, Thursday, 2018 11:22 AM 
 Kavre, July 5 A woman in Timal village of Kavrepalanchok district has killed a minor, approximately nine to 10 year old, after the child reportedly saw her making out with her boyfriend. Police have arrested Mina Tamang (21) from Aadhabato, Timal Rural Municipality-1, on the charge of killing her niece Alisa. Mina’s supposed boyfriend, Jokhan Mansur (23), has also been arrested. Mansur, a local construction worker, was living with the Tamang family for last few months. Police inform that the duo strangled the child to death in a farm last night after the child saw them making out earlier. Investigators say after a preliminary probe that the couple resorted to the murder as they wanted to hide their relationship from the public. Further investigation is underway. Published on July 5th, Thursday, 2018 10:40 AM 
Kathmandu, July 4 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa has clarified that the government has not deprived people of their right to protest. He, however, says medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC is turning himself authoritarian by demanding that everything should be done as he wished. After opposition lawmakers protested the government decision to restrict demonstrators from various places of Kathmandu Valley including Maitighar Mandala, Home Minister Thapa said during the Parliament meeting today that some specific places have been selected for demonstrations so that they would not affect rights of others. Dr KC could also stage hunger strike anywhere but not hospital premises as it would affect smooth functioning of the health facilities, he added. “Staging protests in very sensitive places like hospitals and road junctions creates a chaos. So, why don’t you choose other places,” he said, “We do not consider such activities democratic.” He added that no one should revolt against the government now as it does not consist of anti-nationalist forces. He was of the view that protesting activities of a democratic government would mean protesting democracy itself. Published on July 4th, Wednesday, 2018 3:56 PM 
Kathmandu, July 4 Office bearers of the Kathmandu University have started lobbying to change the recommendation of University Grants Commission Nepal to operate the institution under the local government. A study committee formed by the Commission under the leadership of Tri Ratna Manandhar had recommended categorising universities across the country into three levels – central, provincial and local levels. The panel had suggested operating the KU under the local government. But, the university officials say it is inappropriate to operate the institution locally as its international ranking it better than other universities in the country including the Tribhuvan University. “The universities should be categorised keeping the quality of the university in mind rather than just the geographical location. We do not agree with the report submitted by the committee to the Commission,” an official at the KU said. The government had given permission to establish the KU in Changunarayan of Bhaktapur. However, due to land issues, it was later established in Dhulikhel of Kavre. The committee has also recommended to categorise Tribhuvan University, Open University and Agriculture and Forestry University under the central government. Similarly, Purbanchal, Pokhara, Mid-Western, Far Western, and Rajarshi universities have been placed at the provincial level. The Commission will submit the report to the Ministry of Education soon after giving it the final shape. Published on July 4th, Wednesday, 2018 1:14 PM 
Kathmandu, July 4 The Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers says it has launched a ‘movement’ to control foreign junkets involving high level government staff. As the first step of the movement, the OPMCM has written a letter to selected ministries ordering them to inform it with all details of the visits made in past three weeks. The ministries include the the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Water Supply and the Ministry of Energy. They have been ordered to respond to the OPMCM within next three days explaining purposes of every foreign visit made since April 14. Section Officer at the OPMCM, Bibek Ghimire, says the Office is planning to strictly implement the Foreign Visit Management Directive that wants to make the visits useful, fruitful, cost effective, transparent and well-managed. Published on July 4th, Wednesday, 2018 12:31 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 4 The government of Nepal is preparing to sign an energy cooperation agreement with the government of Bangladesh in its bid to attract more foreign investment and expand hydropower market. The Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation has already sent a letter to the Bangladeshi counterpart to decide a date for the agreement. Likewise, the Cabinet has also endorsed the decision for the agreement. The two countries have also exchanged the draft. The Ministry’s spokesperson Dinesh Kumar Ghimire says it had decided to sign the agreement around six months ago and written to the Dhaka government to fix a convenient date then. However, the Bangladeshi government did not give any response, forcing Nepal to resend the letter, according to him. He adds that the agreement will facilitate the involvement of Bangladeshi investors in Nepali projects and the trade of Nepali power with Bangladesh. Currently, Bangladesh purchases 600 megawatt electricity from India. So far, Nepal has signed such agreements with India and China. The one with China was signed just few weeks back when Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli visited Beijing. Published on July 4th, Wednesday, 2018 12:05 PM 
Kathmandu, July 3 Former Chief Justice Sushila Karki has commented that the incumbent government has stood in favour of feudal forces. Karki also accused the government of supporting the exploiter feudal merchants and bringing the Medical Education Bill against the report prepared by Kedar Bhakta Mathema-led high level panel. “Is this legitimate? You people are feudal,” she said. She also supported medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC while stating that he was fighting for the future of children belonging to poor and marginalised communities. Speaking at a programme organised in the Capital on Tuesday, Karki also protested the government’s decision of making Maitighar Mandala a protest-free zone. Karki also expressed her anger over the government’s ignorance over Ganga Maya Adhikari’s case. Published on July 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 3:13 PM 
 Kanchanpur, July 3 Four-wheelers have been banned over the Mahakali Bridge on the Nepal-India border from Tuesday as the water flow in the river has increased. The measurement taken at 8:00 am today showed that the water flow in the river was 144,870 cubic foot per second (cusec). The vehicles are banned over the bridge if the water flow crosses the mark of 80,000 cusec. The Indian side imposes a ban on the operation of such vehicles once the water level increases as the bridge is in need of repairing also. Vehicles have queued up on both ends of the bridge while waiting for the water level in the Mahakali River to decrease. RSS Published on July 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 2:37 PM 
Kathmandu, July 3 Police in Kathmandu say they have arrested three youth for their alleged involvement in betting about various matches of the ongoing FIFA World Cup. Prakat Maharjan (22) from Mhaipi, Rejin Maharjan (22) from Ramghat and Sujen Shahi (25) from Chagal were arrested from Chagal, Swayambhu area of Kathmandu at around 6:30 pm on Monday. Police also confiscated Rs 699,000 from them. The Metropolitan Police Range in Kathmandu says the suspects are in police custody and further investigation is underway. Betting is considered a form of gambling, and hence is illegal in Nepal. Published on July 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 1:59 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 3 An Indian Scorpio jeep has met with an accident in Koshi Rural Municipality-4 in Koshi district, killing six persons, this morning. The jeep (BR 06 PB 6498) was going towards west on the East-West Highway when it met with the accident. The District Police Office confirmed that six passengers had lost their lives in the accident. Among the dead, police have identified only two: 40-year-old Sanjeeb Kumar and Gonu Kumar who hail from Supaul district in Bihar, clarified DSP Narayan Prassad Chimoriya. The District Police Office also added that the jeep met with the accident killing three on the spot after the driver lost control. The other three were rushed to Golden Hospital in Biratnagar, where they lost their lives during treatment. Police add that the bodies of people who died on the spot are kept at the District Hospital in Inaruwa while the other bodies have been kept at Golden Hospital in Biratnagar. Four other have been injured due to the crash. Published on July 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 10:42 AM 
Pokhara, July 2 Pokhara of Kaski district, which was named the temporary provincial capital of Province 4, has now been finalised as the capital of the Province. A meeting of the Provincial Assembly held today endorsed the proposal to name Pokhara as the permanent capital with two thirds majority votes. The Assembly, however, could not give a name to the Province today. Earlier, the Assembly discussed the proposal of capital, during which most members extended their support. Earlier, the Assembly had formed a panel to seek people’s suggestions about capital and name of the Province. It had also suggested Pokhara as the capital. Published on July 2nd, Monday, 2018 5:07 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 2 A flood in Tawang Khola has swept away a bus in Babai Rural Municipality-5 in Dang district of western Nepal on Monday. However, there was no human casualty. Two persons have been rescued in the incident. According to the District Police Office, the bus (Na 1 Kha 1861) got stuck in the middle of the flooded river while crossing it. After a while, the water level increased, sweeping the vehicle six metres away. Police, however, reached the incident site on time and moved the vehicle to a bank of the river. Meanwhile, a jeep (Lu 1 Kha 2343) was removed from the debris of a landslide at Krishnabhir of Rorang Rural Municipality in Benighat, Dhading, along the Prithvi Highway on Monday. No human casualty was reported in this incident too as police reached the site on time.     Published on July 2nd, Monday, 2018 3:49 PM 
   Kathmandu, July 2 The government has issued high alerts for flooding in the areas nearby major rivers in western Nepal. According to the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology under the Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation, water level has crossed the danger level in Narayani River and Babai River. As per the record till 11:35 am today, the water level in Narayani River has increased by 0.5 metres than the danger level. The danger point was set to three metres, and the water level is 3.5 metres now. Similarly, the danger point in Babai River has been set to 5.50 metres. But, the water level has risen to six metres, which is more than the danger point. Warning bells have been activated in the areas to inform about the danger. Meanwhile, water flow is rising in Karnali, Babai, West Rapti, and Narayani River among others.   Published on July 2nd, Monday, 2018 12:34 PM 
Kathmandu, July 2 The Kathmandu District Administration Office has urged all public and private schools in the district not to halt teaching learning activities except on public holidays. The directive follows an announcement by some student organisations that they will impose an education strike this week. Stating that receiving education in a peaceful environment is a right of every student, the Office urged schools, colleges, management teams, students, guardians and other stakeholders to continue educational activities defying such educational strikes. The government body has further stated that anyone imposing educational strike will face stern action. The DAO has further asked the educational institutes to call them or police in case of such strike and any untoward activities affecting the regular education. It says the administration is ready to ensure full security to educational institutions. Published on July 2nd, Monday, 2018 12:13 PM 
Surkhet, July 2 Doctors looking after medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC say the fasting doctor’s health condition it at a ‘worrying sate’. Dr KC is on a hunger strike in Jumla since Saturday protesting the new Medical Education Bill which the government has recently drafted and is preparing to table in Parliament soon. Dr KC is experiencing increased pain in his limbs, head and chest, said Dr Pujan Rokaya, the medical director at the Karnali Academy of Health Sciences in Jumla. “Dr KC has passed out only 200 millilitre urine in 24 hours. His condition is vulnerable,” he added. The medical team has already drawn the attention of the district authorities to the need of taking initiatives for protecting the health and life of Dr KC, stated Dr Rokaya. It is stated that Dr KC is staging the hunger strike at a dingy place full of pigeon droppings. Dr Rokaya further stated that they should not be held responsible now if anything would happen with Dr KC. Chief District Officer of Jumla, Bishnu Poudel, said that the district administration was very sensitive regarding Dr KC’s health. “Setting aside Dr KC’s demands for a moment, we have been tough against anyone trying to create disturbance in the law and order through riot by inciting the situation in the name of Dr KC’s demands. But, we respect his demands,” he said. However, Dr KC’s supporters have been pressing the government to fulfill the demands. RSS Published on July 2nd, Monday, 2018 11:47 AM 
Kathmandu, July 1 The Metropolitan Traffic Police Division in Kathmandu has launched an SMS service to inform members of the public if Narayangadh-Muglin road in Chitwan district is obstructed due to landslides or other reasons. The service was launched after landslides obstructed the key road connecting Kathmandu and Pokhara with the East-West Highway frequently. Now onwards, members of the public can send an SMS tying ‘nmt’ to 34848 so as to get informed about if the road is obstructed or not, and if yes, at which place. The Division says they can get information about the situation from Narayangadh to Mauwakhola along the road. Published on July 1st, Sunday, 2018 2:34 PM 
 Kathmandu, July 1 The government has shortlisted four companies after calling expressions of interest to study the criteria to manage mismanaged electricity wires in urban areas including Kathmandu Valley. Nepal Telecommunications Authority Senior Director Ananda Raj Khanal informed that criteria would be set to start a pilot project to manage the wires handing from poles. After setting the standard, the NTA will lay the wires underground instead. The work will begin by managing wires along Maitighar-Jai Nepal road section in Kathmandu. “The company with the best proposal will hold a study. Another tender will be called to lay the wires,” Khanal said, adding, “If we succeed along this road, we will start managing the wires underground on other roads as well.” The Authority has also proposed managing telecommunications wires underground. However, no agreement has been reached in this regard. The new standard will also bring the internet providers under control who haphazardly connect the internet line on electricity poles. Published on July 1st, Sunday, 2018 2:10 PM 
Kathmandu, July 1 The House of Representatives meeting scheduled for Sunday has been postponed for Monday without beginning discussions on the formal agenda. Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara postponed the meeting after learning the the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, was preparing to launch a protest against the National Medical Education Bill that the government was scheduled to table at the meeting today. As soon as the meeting began today, Mahara allowed lawmakers to express their opinions on various issues in the zero hour and the special hour. Then, he postponed the meeting for 30 minutes in a bid to convince the Congress. However, the Parliament Secretariat issued a notice later informing the meeting was postponed for 11 am tomorrow. The main opposition has been accusing the government of trying to table the bill without any consultation.   Published on July 1st, Sunday, 2018 1:57 PM 
   Kathmandu, June 29 The Department of Hydrology and Meteorology of Nepal government has issued a special notice asking people living in Terai and Chure regions to stay alert and prepared against possible floods. The Department says the water level in most of the rivers are likely to rise above the danger level. Heavy rainfall has been predicted across the country for three more days, mostly in central and western regions. Therefore, the Department has asked the commoners to maintain high alertness in districts in Tarai, Chure, and mid-hilly regions. The Department has further requested the locals in lower areas of hilly region also to remain alert and prepared. The notice further urges them to give priority to preparations and rescue works.   Published on June 29th, Friday, 2018 2:48 PM 
Kathmandu, June 29 The House of Representatives on Friday endorsed a key budget document for the upcoming fiscal year 2018/19 that will begin on July 17. The Lower House endorsed the Appropriation Bill with majority votes today. Likewise, Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada’s proposals to begin discussions on the Finance Bill, theÂ Bill to Raise Domestic Debt, and the Loan and Guarantee Bill, have also been passed with majority votes today. Earlier this morning, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had responded to questions raised by lawmakers during the meeting. Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada had presented annual budget statement for the upcoming fiscal year on May 29. Published on June 29th, Friday, 2018 2:30 PM 
 Birgunj, June 29 Police have arrested a man with one kilogram of illegal gold from Birgunj of Parsa district this afternoon. Santosh Kumar Sah, a permanent resident of Haripur Municipality-9 in Sarlahi, was arrested with the illegal gold in front of Shankaracharya Gate in Birgunj while he was allegedly on his way to India, informed SP Rewati Dhakal. Acting on a tip-off, a team led by the Inaruwa Police Office In-charge Tribhuvan Sah confiscated the precious metal while checking a motorcycle (Na 48 Pa 3774). The six pieces of precious metal were wrapped with a black tape, newspaper and again with a white tape and hidden in the air filter of the two-wheeler, said police. Police are preparing to make public the alleged smuggler today itself. Published on June 29th, Friday, 2018 2:03 PM 
 Rautahat, June 29 An alleged Indian criminal died in an exchange of fire between Rautahat District Police Office’s patrol team and his gang. The police team and the gang had exchanged fire on the embankment area of Bagmati River nearby Gadahiya Dumuriya in Rajdevi Municipality-4. A 25-year-old Indian criminal suspect was gunned down in the crossfire, police said. The deceased is yet to be identified. District Police Office spokesperson DSP Ram Kumar Dani informed that the critically injured Indian national was declared dead by doctors of the District Hospital Gaur. The motorbike-borne criminals had opened fire at police while undertaking a security screening. Meanwhile, the police squad recovered an automated SMG gun, four bullets, one magazine and other substances from the gang, shared DSP Dani. The District Police Office had mobilised a special squad on the bordering area along the Bagmati riverbank acting on a tip off about increasing presence and manoeuvring of Indian criminals of late. RSS Published on June 29th, Friday, 2018 11:03 AM 
  Kathmandu, June 29 Landslides following incessant rainfall have obstructed various roads and highways across the country on Friday morning. The Singati-Lamabagar road section located between Manthali of Ramechhap and Tatopani in Gauri Shankar Rural Municipality in Dolakha is blocked after a landslip at around 6:00 am on Friday. The two-way vehicular movement has been obstructed following the landslip. Similarly, the Karnali Highway has also been blocked due to a landslide in Gagane Khola of Subhakalila Rural Municipality-2 in Kalikot district. Vehicular movement along other roads in various districts including Dailekh, Surkhet, Jumla, and Kalikot has also come to a halt. Police have been trying to remove the debris and resume the vehicular movement in the areas. Various districts in Nepal are prone to landslides and flooding during the monsoon every year.   Published on June 29th, Friday, 2018 10:40 AM 
 Solukhumbu, June 29 At least seven persons died in a jeep accident in Dudhkunda Municipality of Solukhumbu district on Friday morning. The jeep (Ko 1 Jha 1860) heading towards Patale Bazaar from Necha Salyan met with the accident at a cliff located at the border of Tilanga, Necha Salyan and Dudhkunda Municipality at around 7:30 am today. The jeep fell around 500 metres down the road. Of the seven killed, the identity of Shiv Kumari Yadav has been established so far, said Assistant Chief District Officer, Tupti Sherpa. Identities of others deceased are yet to be ascertained. Similarly, a nine-year-old minor was rescued and rushed to the district headquarters for treatment. According to Sherpa, locals have been conducting rescue works as police are yet to reach the incident site which is 13 km away from the district headquarters. Police are looking into the case. Published on June 29th, Friday, 2018 10:16 AM 
Chitwan, June 28 Rastriya Prajatantra Party Chairman Kamal Thapa says his party is preparing to unify with other likeminded parties carrying the similar name. He even claims that the unified RPP will never split again. Currently, Thapa’s RPP is holding discussions with parties led by Pashupati Shamsher Rana and Prakash Chandra Lohani. The former deputy prime minister concedes that it was a weakness on his part that he could not keep the already unified party intact for long. But now, various groups will merge on the basis of principles and policies endorsed by the latest RPP general convention and it will launch a campaign for reinstatement of Hindu state, according to him. Speaking with journalists in Bharatpur of Chitwan today, the leader also commented that his party had mixed responses on the incumbent KP Sharma Oli-led government. Published on June 28th, Thursday, 2018 12:44 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 28 Nepal Airlines Corporation (NAC)’s newest aircraft has landed at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu this morning. The Airbus A330-200 series aircraft is one of the NAC’s first wide body aircraft, which has been named Annapurna. Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari says that Annapurna will take its first commercial flight on August 1. The aircraft was welcomed by the Minister NAC officials at the country’s sole international airport today. They also offered a special puja to the aeroplane. The national flag carrier has bought the aircraft from an American company, AAR Corp, for $ 201.6 million.  The new aircraft has 18 business class seats and 256 economy class seats. In front of the seats are infotainment systems, which have touch screen features and also has Nepali language options. To bring the aircraft to Kathmandu, NAC General Manager Sugat Ratna Kansakar, Corporate Director Rabindra Shrestha along with two pilots had left for France. The ferry flight took off from Toulouse of the European country and was flown by two foreign pilots. It took eight hours to get to Kathmandu.  NAC General Manager Sugat Ratna Kansakar mentioned that Annapurna would fly to Dubai, Hong Kong and Kuala Lumpur in the first phase. The other wide body aircraft is due to arrive sometime next month. As of now, all of NAC international fights are carried out by two narrow body aircraft. According to the Corporation, after the arrival of these wide body aircraft, the narrow body ones will fly to nearer destinations like Delhi, Bangalore and Bangkok.  “The frequency of the flights to the destinations we fly to will definitely increase after the the arrival of our new aircraft,” said Kansakar, adding the NAC was looking to fly to new destinations as well. He also added that the aircraft would be flown by experienced pilots hired by the NAC. Published on June 28th, Thursday, 2018 12:28 PM 
Kathmandu, June 28 The Government of Nepal has decided to defend Nepali migrant workers facing trial at courts in various countries of the world. The move tries to address legal problems Nepali migrant workers are facing in host countries. A Cabinet meeting held on Thursday endorsed a directive in this regard. The government now plans to implement the Legal Defence Directive within next 10 days. Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security informs Onlinekhabar that the Ministry has begun updating status of Nepali workers facing trial abroad so that the Directive can effectively be executed. According to the Directive, the government will mobilise lawyers of concerned countries in defence of the workers, but shoulders the responsibility of paying them. If the workers later get compensation more than the government expense during the trial, the workers will be made to reimburse the government. But, if the compensation amount is below the expense, workers are entitled to take the whole of it. Published on June 28th, Thursday, 2018 12:18 PM 
Kathmandu, June 27 The government says it is restructuring the Department of Revenue Investigation as an economic intelligence unit of the government. A recent Cabinet meeting has already endorsed the proposal to restructure the body. Accordingly, the Department has been brought under the Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers from the Ministry of Finance. The Department’s Director General Dirgha Raj Mainali says the number of total staff in the Department has been reduced so as to maintain confidentiality of investigation process. However, the number of legal personnel has increased as there is a need to formulate and implement new laws. As the intelligence agency, the Department now will collect secret information about economic affairs and launch confidential investigations about them. The government hopes that doing so will make the government stronger in tax evasion cases. Meanwhile, Mainali says government staff working in cahoots with the traders for tax evasion will not be spared now onwards. Published on June 27th, Wednesday, 2018 3:00 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 27 The Metropolitan Crime Division, the crime investigation police unit of the capital, has urged members of the public to maintain decency while using social media so that they can avoid being victims or perpetrators of cybercrime. The Division has told public not to accept friend requests sent by strangers on Facebook as “the trend of making obscene pictures by morphing pictures of social media users from their Facebook, Twitter, Viber, Imo and Instagram and posting them online is increasing of late.” The Division has also warned people against spreading rumours about various issues on social media, and defaming other people. Police say people can be fined upto Rs 200,000 or jailed for two years or can be given both the sentences if they are found involved in such activities as they can be deemed cybercrime. Published on June 27th, Wednesday, 2018 2:23 PM 
Butwal, June 27 The Province 5 Assembly Secretariat on Wednesday has convened the legislative body’s meeting without the participation of main opposition party, Nepali Congress. Earlier, the Congress lawmakers had complained that the budget statement announced by the provincial government was imbalanced and unilateral. Despite attempts of the ruling side, the party was not satisfied. Today also, the Congress lawmakers had gathered at the office of their parliamentary party leader Baladev Sharma Pokharel when the Assembly convened its meeting. Meanwhile, Pokharel accused the ruling parties of undermining values of parliamentary practice by convening the meeting without opposition. He said the government ignored his side’s genuine demand for balanced and proportional budget, adding, it was an authoritarian attitude. Some lawmakers of the ruling parties have also expressed their dissatisfaction over the budget.     Published on June 27th, Wednesday, 2018 2:05 PM 
Chitwan, June 27 The Narayangadh-Muglin road section in Chitwan district, which faced repeated obstructions due to major and minor landslides in past week, has got obstructed again on Wednesday morning. A landslide at local Charkilo of the district at around 6 am today obstructed the vehicular movement on both sides, according to the Narayangadh-Muglin Road Project’s Information Officer Shiva Khanal. The District Traffic Police Office says the road is unlikely to open within next few hours as the landslide is quite big and removing the debris takes hours. Police, therefore, have suggested using alternative roads. On Tuesday also, the road was obstructed for continuous 11 hours. The road section often faces similar problems during the monsoon season every year. It was severer last year as the road upgrading workers were underway. The upgrading was complete just a couple of weeks ago. Published on June 27th, Wednesday, 2018 11:05 AM 
Kathmandu, June 26 Acharya Shreeniwas, a Hindu spiritual leader based in Biratnagar of Morang district in eastern Nepal, has denied a charge made by police that he orchestrated his own shooting in April. Police in May had arrested Shreeniwas with the charge. He was recently released on bail. Few days after the release, the spiritual leader organised a press meeting in Kathmandu today and claimed the government attempted his character assassination with the charge and demanded action against the culprit. Earlier, he was found shot on April 8. After a monthlong investigation, police had concluded that he planned his own shooting with mala fide intents. But, Shreeniwas claimed the state authorities including the police could not carry out a fair probe, therefore an independent commission should be formed to find out the truth.   Published on June 26th, Tuesday, 2018 4:24 PM 
Kathmandu, June 26 The main opposition party, Nepali Congress, has accused Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli of trying to be a ‘new king’. The party’s lawmaker Minendra Rijal claimed that the Prime Minister was trying to exercise authoritarian rule as he tried to bring various government agencies under the Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers. He was taking part in the discussion held on budget allocation proposed for the OPMCM, in the House of Representatives meeting today and said the budget allocated was more than necessary. Rijal further suggested that the Prime Minister control his activities at the earliest as they were against the laws. Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa; Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari; and Minister for Law Sher Bahadur Tamang were also acting against the laws as they petrified employees and common people, he said, adding, such behaviours must be controlled. Published on June 26th, Tuesday, 2018 3:08 PM 
Kathmandu, June 26 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli addressed the House of Representatives to inform lawmakers about achievements of his six-day official China visit, on Tuesday morning. The address was rescheduled from Monday to 11:00 am today. It, however, was delayed for around half an hour. Addressing the Lower House, the Prime Minister said that the visit further strengthened the bilateral relations between the two countries. “My meetings with President Xi Jinping, my counterpart and other high level officials discussed the plans and techniques to adopt for constructing new infrastructures and developing the current ones in the country. This created a favourable environment for the development of Nepal,” said Oli. The Prime Minister also said that the visit was a success as all the expectations were fulfilled after most agreements were reached between both Nepal and China. “China is positive towards this,” he added. The Prime Minister further informed the lawmakers that various agreements on railways, road and highways, energy, hydropower, and communications sector were made during the China visit. “We need to use the equipment and technology of our two neighbouring countries to develop the country. We cannot do it all on our own. We are also open to collaborating with other countries as well,” he said. He also thanked the delegates for their contribution to making the visit a successful one. As per the ongoing tradition, the Prime Minister and other ministers address the House before and after officially visiting foreign countries. Published on June 26th, Tuesday, 2018 12:30 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 26 The Federal Parliament Secretariat says the task of raising questions over the budget allocations made to various ministries and government bodies for the next fiscal year will end today. Now, respective ministers will address concerns raised by the lawmakers about their ministries. On the first day today, seven ministers will respond to lawmakers. They include Communication Minister Gokul Banskota, Water Supply Minister Bina Magar, Agriculture Minister Chakrapani Khanal, Law Minister Sher Bahadur Tamang, Tourism Minister Rabindra Adhikari, Youth Minister Jagat Bishwakarma and Women Minister Tham Maya Thapa. The Secretariat says other ministers will answer to the lawmakers by Friday. According to the constitution, the budget for next fiscal year should be endorsed by the end of this fiscal year (mid-July). Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada had presented the annual budget on May 29. Some lawmakers of the ruling parties have also expressed their dissatisfaction over the allocations. Published on June 26th, Tuesday, 2018 10:52 AM 
Chitwan, June 26 Vehicular movement has been obstructed after landslides in various places obstructed the Narayangadh-Muglin road in Chitwan district yet again. According to Chitwan District Traffic Police Office, landslips in different places at around 5:30 am on Tuesday obstructed the traffic along the road. Works to remove the debris are underway. But, it will take time as few landslides are quite big, informs Spokesperson at the Office, Shiva Sharma Acharya. Though the techniques to stop landslide in other places have become effective, stopping landslips in Charkilo is still an issue as no techniques and equipment have been able to stop landslide there, said project officer, Shiva Khanal. Meanwhile, police have suggested using an alternative route for travellers. The road section often faces similar problems during the monsoon season every year. It was severer last year as the road upgrading workers were underway. The upgrading was complete just a couple of weeks ago.       Published on June 26th, Tuesday, 2018 10:39 AM 
 Kathmandu, June 25 Dairy producers have denied the accusation that they adulterated milk and milk products by using urea and other chemicals. The umbrella organisation of dairy producers, Dairy Industry Association, says no inedible materials have been used in their products. The statement comes after media reports that coliform and other bacteria were found in products of various companies mainly due to adulteration. But, speaking at a discussion with the Department of Food Technology and Quality Control today, the Association’s officials said lab examinations found portions of urea in milk as grass and feed that the cattle consume have urea also. The Association’s Chairperson Araniko Rajbhandari argued that it would not have negative impacts on human health. The industrialists also argued that milk powders they have been using met set standards. The Association, however, expressed its commitment that it would formulate a code of conduct and implement them within next two years. Published on June 25th, Monday, 2018 3:46 PM 
Kathmandu, June 25 The address of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli at the House of Representatives has been postponed for Tuesday. The Prime Minister was scheduled to address the Lower House about the achievements of his China visit at 2:00 pm today. However, the address was postponed at around 1:00 pm, informed Chetan Adhikari, PMâ€™s press coordinator. The address was rescheduled for tomorrow as discussions on budget allocated to the Home Ministry were to be expedited so as to conclude it early. Now, the Prime Minister will address Parliament at 11:00 am on Tuesday. As per the tradition, the Prime Minister and ministers address the House before and after visiting any foreign country to inform the lawmakers about the visit and achievements. Meanwhile, the main opposition party, Nepali Congress, obstructed the House meeting over the absence of Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa today.   Published on June 25th, Monday, 2018 2:51 PM 
Kathmandu, June 25 The main opposition party Nepali Congress on Monday obstructed the House of Representatives meeting for few minutes after finding that Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa was absent there while discussions were underway on the budget allocated to the Home Ministry. Customarily, concerned ministers should be present at the House when Parliament discusses budget allocations to their ministries. On Monday, the Federal Parliament Secretariat had scheduled discussions on budget for HomeÂ  Ministry; Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation; and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. While the discussion was focused on the Home Ministry, Congress lawmakers reported to Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara that Home Minister Thapa was not there; hence it would be useless to continue the discussion. Mahara, on his part, tried to address their concerns saying Thapa was late due to a traffic jam and he was on the way. His answer could not satisfy them; it instead allowed the lawmakers to burst into laughter. The lawmakers then laughed for few minutes before they resumed the protest by standing up from their seats. Consequently, Mahara postponed the meeting for 10 minutes. Published on June 25th, Monday, 2018 1:50 PM 
Chitwan, June 25 Landslides at four places along the Narayangadh-Muglin road in Chitwan district have obstructed the vehicular movement since Monday morning. The movement was obstructed after landslips at Jalbire, Kalikhola, Charkilo, and Tin Number Pul this morning. According to the Chitwan District Traffic Police Office, police personnel among others are removing the debris using excavators, and this will take some more time. Continuous rainfall is creating difficulties in removing the debris ,but the personnel are doing their best to resume the traffic at the earliest, says Chief at the Office, Ved Prasad Gautam. He further requests the travellers to use alternative roads until the debris is removed completely. The road section often faces similar problems during the monsoon season every year. It was severer last year as the road upgrading workers were underway. The upgrading was complete just a couple of weeks ago. Published on June 25th, Monday, 2018 9:59 AM 
Chitwan, June 24 The Bharatpur Metropolitan City has brought a budget of Rs 3.34 billion for the next fiscal year 2018/19 on Sunday. Rs 1.705 billion has been allocated for recurrent expenditure and Rs 1.62 billion has been allocated for the capital expenditure. Rs 45 million has been allocated for economic development, Rs 590 million for infrastructure and urban development, Rs 120 million for environment and disaster management, and Rs 356.4 million for organisational development and service delivery. Major projects including construction of a flyover from Narayangadh to Ring Road, smart city, medical city, tourism park, cricket field, overhead bridge, Bharatpur airport renovation, operation of Meghauli airport, construction of electronic crematorium, among others have been given priority in the budget. Likewise, parking management, construction of engineering college, auto land, embankment at Narayani River, culvert construction among others have also been stressed in the budget announcement.   Published on June 24th, Sunday, 2018 4:31 PM 
Chitwan, June 24 Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara has claimed that the House of Representatives will approve all the laws required for implementation of the constitution by September 18 as the country will mark the third anniversary of constitution promulgation. The constitution has it that all laws for the implementation of its key provisions including fundamental rights should be implemented within three years of the commencement. Inaugurating the second municipal council meeting at Bharatpur Metropolitan City in Chitwan on Sunday, Mahara said that new laws would be made covering local levels as well so that all local and provincial governments could smoothly carry out their activities. The Speaker also said that the new federal setup would get its full shape after implementation of new laws, and the resources and equipment would be made available to commoners then. Likewise, he also said that the all those supporting federal setup must unite for its successful implementation.     Published on June 24th, Sunday, 2018 4:03 PM 
 Pokhara, June 24 Senior Social Development Officer and  Information Officer of Pokhara Lekhanath Metropolitan City, Om Raj Poudel, has gone missing since Saturday morning. According to his family, Poudel went for a morning walk, but did not return. He had left both his mobile phones at home. The family said they also found a small paper chit reading “I could do nothing for my family” at home after his disappearance. Police began the search operation after the family filed a complaint at the police station. The search is underway, informed DSP Rabindra Man Gurung at the Kaski District Police Office. However, an eyewitness informed the police that a man with green t-shirt jumped off the Seti River from Mahendra Bridge at around 5:00 am on Saturday. Poudel had worn the same kind of t-shirt. Meanwhile, the City Mayor Man Bahadur GC has issued a notice urging the locals to cooperate the search and not to spread unnecessary rumours until the matter is sorted out. Published on June 24th, Sunday, 2018 1:00 PM 
Surkhet, June 24 The Jumla-Rara Ultramarathon 2018 will kick off in Jumla on July 11. “Jumla-based Karnali Sports Club will organise the national level marathon with the objective of promoting sports and tourism in Karnali region,” said the Club President, Saroj Shahi. The athletes will run from an altitude of 2,300 metres to 2990 metres covering the distance of 49 kilometres from Khalanga of Jumla to Rara Lake in Mugu. “Ultramarathon runners from across the country can participate in the championship,” he added. Around 400 people including international athletes, who have participated in the Trail Race, would take part in the competition. “The estimated cost of the ultramarathon is Rs 750,000. The National Sports Council is providing Rs 400,000 and the Chandannath Municipality Rs 100,000 for the event,” informed Shahi. The athletes securing first, second and third position would be awarded cash prize of Rs 50,000, Rs 30,000 and Rs 20,000, respectively. RSS Published on June 24th, Sunday, 2018 12:18 PM 
 Banke, June 24 A high ranking officer from the Nepal army has been caught with brown sugar in Dokari, Banke. Major Dhirendra Jung Shahi was caught with 54 grams of the illegal drug by a special team of Nepal Police. Police also caught alleged drug peddler Rim Poudel. He is believed to a notorious smuggler. According to sources, Shahi told police that he was a Major of Shree Mayor Battalion in Shamshergunj. Inspector Ran Bahadur Bista of the Banke District Police Office confirmed the arrest of Shahi and Poudel. Inspector Bista informedÂ Onlinekhabar, “He has told us that he is a Major in the army but he has not shown us any proof yet. We are investigating the issue.” After an anonymous tip-off, police caught Shahi while he was at Dakeri to purchase the drugs. Both Shahi and Poudel are under police custody in the district. Published on June 24th, Sunday, 2018 11:25 AM 
Kathmandu, June 22 Rastriya Prajatantra Party Chairman Kamal Thapa, who was the Minister for Foreign Affairs during the previous premiership of KP Sharma Oli, has commended Oli for signing an agreement with the Chinese government to extend a railway link to Kathmandu. “I am very satisfied and happy with the visit. There are many possibilities of encouraging progress in various issues including trade, transit and connectivity,” Thapa reviewed Oli’s visit in an interview with Onlinekhabar, “Now, the Chinese side has to construct the railway line. We have to talk with them about the investment model. I wish the project would follow the Chinese technology.” He, however, expressed his concerns over political engagements of Oli into activities of the Communist Party of China. “Some political issues are controversial and I do not want to talk about them now,” Thapa said, adding, “I do not think the Prime Minister’s visit to the Chinese Communist Party’s office was appropriate.” “Of course, he could visit the party office and support the political ideology if he was visiting there as a party chair. But, as the Prime Minister, it is not appropriate.” Published on June 22nd, Friday, 2018 1:37 PM 
Rajbiraj, June 22 Shree Airlines would be operating regular flights to Kathmandu from Rajbiraj of Saptari district from Sunday, June 24, after a gap of around 59 years. Spokesperson of the Company, Anil Manandhar, said that the aircraft of Shree Airlines would make flights for five days a week from Rajbiraj Airport. The one-way fare from Rajbiraj to Kathmandu has been determined minimum Rs 3,500 and maximum Rs 6,200. Spokesperson Manandhar added that the company would operate flights everyday except on Tuesday and Saturday as there would be fewer passengers on these days. The Airlines would operate flights using a 50-seater aircraft. He said it would be easier to domestic and Indian pilgrims to visit Pashupatinath Temple once the Shree Airlines aircraft started its service. The Rajbiraj Airport was repaired and upgraded at a cost of Rs 303 million. According to the Civil Aviation Authority of Nepal, the then Minister for Transport, Ganesh Man Singh, had laid the foundation stone of Airport 59 years back. The airport had remained closed for the past 20 years. Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation, Rabindra Adhikari, had said regular flights from Rabjiraj Airport would start from June 15. RSS Published on June 22nd, Friday, 2018 12:29 PM 
Hetaunda, June 22 The main opposition Nepali Congress has accused the incumbent Nepal Communist Party Chairman KP Sharma Oli-led government of heading towards totalitarianism. The party concluded its four-day district presidents’ gathering in Hetaunda of Makawanpur district on Friday morning and issued a 19-point declaration, which criticises multiple activities of the current government. The declaration states that the communist government has interfered in media in a bid to prohibit and control them, tried to influence judicial processing and created a terror among civil servants and academicians. Likewise, the government tried to control non-government organisations, clearly indicating that it is going against democratic norms and values, according to the party. Meanwhile, the party has also decided to stand firm for protection and promotion of democratic values including republicanism, federalism, independent judiciary and free press. Regarding the internal organisation of party, the gathering has recommended the Central Working Committee to amend the party charter through a mahasamiti meeting so as to adopt the new federal structure and prepare a procedure to form local and provincial structures. Published on June 22nd, Friday, 2018 12:02 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 21 Nepal and China have agreed to extend existing railway line upto Kyirong of Tibet to Nepal’s capital in Kathmandu, which will effectively fulfil the much hyped wish of Nepal from the northern neighbour. Following a meeting between prime ministers of the two countries in Beijing on Thursday, officials of the two countries agreed that electric cargo rails will come to Kathmandu via Tibet in the first phase. Meanwhile, the two countries signed 10 agreements and four memorandums of understanding in total following the meeting between Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and his Chinese counterpart Li Keqiang. Earlier, on Wednesday, various government and private agencies of Nepal had signed eight agreements with China. (Updated) Kathmandu, June 21 Governments of Nepal and China are preparing to sign some significant agreements as the delegations led by prime ministers of the two countries have begun an interdelegation meeting in Beijing on Thursday. Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is currently in the Chinese capital on a six-day official visit to the giant northern neighbour. Nepal is expecting to sign a deal on launching a feasibility study for the development of crossborder railway among other agreements for infrastructural development of various sectors. Meanwhile, a special troop of Chinese Army has offered a guard of honour to Nepal’s Prime Minister before the meeting at the Great Hall of the People. Chinese Premier, Li Keqiang , was also present on the occasion. Oli had held a one-on-one talk with Chinese President Xi Jinping yesterday. During the meeting, Xi reportedly assured Oli that China was ready to become a development partner of Nepal. Published on June 21st, Thursday, 2018 3:19 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 21 The Kathmandu Metropolitan City says it will use the global positioning system (GPS) for effective traffic management in the city. A study has begun to explore how the system can be used to fix bus stations in the city so that the traffic can be well-managed, according to the local government. It has been hoped that the system will effectively end the trend of stopping vehicles anywhere they like in the city where the number of vehicles is ever increasing. KMC Chief Executive Officer Yadav Prasad Koirala says the local government has also launched another study to operate vehicles of the international standard in the city. On the other hand, the City says it is ready to join hands with the Metropolitan Traffic Police Division for effective traffic management as well as bids to reduce accidents in the city. Published on June 21st, Thursday, 2018 3:06 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 21 The government has made preparation to bring Jayanagar-Janakpur-Kurtha and Bathnaha-Biratnagar railways into operation by January next year. According to the Department of Railways, officials of Nepal and India held a discussion on Tuesday and Wednesday for technical preparations for the operation of railways. Spokesperson at the Department, Prakash Bhakta Upadhyay, said that Secretaries at the Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport—Keshav Kumar Sharma and Rajendra Raj Sharma, Director General of the Department, Ananta Acharya, Senior Divisional Engineer Aman Chitrakar, among others were present on the occasion. But, the government has not yet prepared the Railways Act. The government has to table the Railways Bill in the Federal Parliament after preparing it. Officials say preparations are underway to draft the Bill. Similarly, the bodies concerned have to pay attention regarding availability and management of technical human resources. As per an agreement between the two countries, an understanding would be reached over technical and other administrative issues in the joint meeting of both countries scheduled from July 9-19. Spokesperson Upadhyay said the 35 kilometers Janakpur-Jayanagar railway would be complete by 2018 end. Officials of the Indian Railway Department were here in Nepal to discuss modality of the project. The Indian Railway Department has agreed to  provide compartment coaches and technical personnel. The Department is also preparing to sign an agreement with Nepal to start the 18-kilometre Biratnagar-Bathanaha railway. RSS Published on June 21st, Thursday, 2018 2:20 PM 
Pokhara, June 21 The existing Pokhara Lekhanath Metropolitan City has proposed removing the world ‘Lekhanath’ from its name after a meeting which is due to held on coming Sunday. This comes after majority felt that the name would be too long. Also Pokhara is already known internationally, and they prefer to use it to name their municipality. Ward chairs from ward 26 to 33 also believe that the name of the city should be Pokhara. The local government has informed that the name will change after a meeting to be held next week. Previously Mayor Man Bahadur GC who had the support of majority was unable to change the name. “My love for Pokhara and Lekhanath is incomprehensible. When I proposed a name change back then, many opposed; but now they want to change the name,” Mayor GC said. The people of Lekhanath, however, do not seem to care about the name because most of them want to see development in the area and are positive about what is to come. “We feel that changing the name is not a big deal cause we want some development done in the area,” says Kriti Raj Dhakal, a local from the area, who adds, “If they care so much about us, why not name the new airport Lekhanath?” However, there are some who believe that Lekhanath should be a different municipality as it was earlier. “We should have a different municipality,” says Lekhanath Poudal from Lekhanath Municipality, “All development works are done in Pokhara only. We need our own identity to make sure that our area is developed too.”   Published on June 21st, Thursday, 2018 10:57 AM 
Kathmandu, June 20 Two persons died on the spot when a truck carrying a JCB excavator fell off the bridge bordering Saptari and Sunsari districts and fell into the mighty Saptakoshi River on Wednesday afternoon. Sunsari’s police chief, SP Rajan Adhikari, confirmed the deaths and identified the victims as Binod Baraili and Ghanashyam Chaudhary. The truck (Na 4 Kha 356) heading towards east (Sunsari) from west (Saptari) hit two flood barriers of the barrage and fell into the river. Security personnel had rescued nine persons from the water. Three of the rescued have been taken to Biratnagar-based Birat Nursing Home for further treatment. Published on June 20th, Wednesday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Kathmandu, June 20 In a bid to escape from its obligation to implement Election Commission’s order to hold the national general convention by July 14, the Madhesh-centric Rastriya Janata Party Nepal has decided to amend its statute. Owing to the provision in the party’s statute that it will hold its general convention within one year from the formation, the Commission last month told the party to hold the convention by July 14, warning it could scrap the registration of the party upon failure to do so. However, the party now concluded that the directive could not be implemented due to time constraints, therefore decided to amend the constitution instead. Now, the party has decided to hold the convention in May next year. A meeting of the party’s Political Committee made the decision. The meeting also decided to write a letter to the Commission to notify the changes in constitution. Published on June 20th, Wednesday, 2018 2:56 PM 
Kathmandu, June 20 The newly unified Nepal Communist Party has hinted that it will protest American policies and its international activities whereas it will openly support Chinese activities in the global politics. In its political report submitted to the Election Commission, the ruling party has not mentioned the name of the United States, but has objected to its activities in the foreign land including the Korean peninsula. Likewise, the ‘imperialist’ force ignited war in Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan in a bid to exploit natural resources there including oil and gas, according to the report. On the other hand, the report mentions that China’s Belt and Road Initiative would help Asian countries counter the influence of American and European forces. It adds that China’s progress in the global economics is an inspiration for developing countries like Nepal. Nothing specific is mentioned about Nepal’s another immediate neighbour, India, in the report. Published on June 20th, Wednesday, 2018 12:32 PM 
 Beijing, June 20 Eight different agreements were signed between Nepal and China in Beijing at the presence of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli today. Agreements were signed between the governments and private companies of both the countries to develop hydropower projects, cement industries and establishing highland food parks, amid a function organized in Embassy of Nepal in Beijing. Different Nepali investors and Chinese investors have signed the separate memorandums of understanding (MoUs) on the occasion.
CEO of Investment Board Nepal Maha Prasad Adhikari and Vice President of Huaxin Cement of China Xu Gang signed the project investment agreement between the Investment Board of Government of Nepal and Huaxin Cement Narayani Private Ltd. The Chinese firm has pledged USD 144 to generate 3,000 metric tonnes of cement per day. Likewise, Nepal’s Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation, and China Communications Construction Company also signed an agreement to prepare a detailed feasibility study on Eastern Terai River Training in Biring, Kamala, Kankai rivers. Joint Secretary at the Ministry of Energy Dinesh Kumar Ghimire of Nepal and Deputy General Manager of China’s Communications Construction Company Liu Dongyuan signed the agreement. Similarly, an MoU between Fortuna Investment Pvt. Ltd of Nepal and Guizhou Maritime Silk Road International Investment Cooperation was signed on establishing the highland food park for varieties of fruits and vegetables. Chairperson of Fortuna Investment Company of Nepal Bhawani Rana and Zhag Zao of Guizhou Maritime Silk Road International Cooperation signed the MoU. Over USD 46 million would be invested in this project. A Joint Development Agreement among Yunnan Xinhua Water Conservancy and Hydropower Investment Company, Hydrosolutions Group and Shanghai Investigation, Design and Research Institute Co, Ltd was also signed for the development of 164 MW Nepal Kaligandaki Gorge Hydropower Project. The project would be developed in BOOT model. Furthermore, an agreement was signed for the construction of 40.27 MW Siuri Nyadi Hydropower Plant Project in EPCF model. Shailendra Guragain of Siuri Nyadi Hydropower Plant Project and Zhang Yanfei of National Electric Engineering Company signed the MoU. On the occasion, an agreement between Nepal Pashmina Industries Association and One Belt One Road International Trade Platform of CIC Mutual Trade Investment Company was signed for the sale of Nepali pashmina in China. The purchase order from China would be between 200,000 to 500,000 pieces every year. President of Nepal Pashmina Industries Association Durga Bikram Thapa and Chairperson of OBOR International Trade Platform of CIC Mutual Trade Investment Company Shu Ya signed the MoU to this effect. Likewise, another MoU on Framework Agreement for Cooperation in Marsyangdi Cascade Hydropower Project of 600 MW was signed between Chairman of Butwal Power Company of Nepal Padma Jyoti and the representative of Sichuan Investment Group Company, Chengdu Xingcheng Investment Group Company and Sichuan Qingyuan Engineering Consulting Company. Finally, another MoU was signed on Cooperation Framework Agreement for the Construction of 75 MW Trishuli Galchhi Hydropower Project in EPCF Model. Nepal’s Siddhakali Power Company Chairman Guru Prasad Neupane and Vice President of Dongfang Electric International Corporation Chen Qiang signed the document for the project construction. RSS Published on June 20th, Wednesday, 2018 11:01 AM 
Kathmandu, June 20 The Ministry of Water Supply says it has launched an investigation into alleged reports that Nepal Water Supply Corporation officials embezzled the government’s budget while purchasing pipes. The Ministry started the investigation upon receiving a complaint that Rs 250 million was embezzled by the Corporation’s officials. The Ministry has formed a five-member investigation committee under the leadership of its Under Secretary Guna Raj Shrestha. Other members include engineers Dinesh Adhikari and Shekhar Khanal, Account Officer Rajendra Prasad Ghinire and and the Corporation’s Bishnu Subba. Shrestha says the committee will submits its report to the Ministry within next seven days. “We have started the investigation process after the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority also directed us for the probe and we received complaints about it on a regular basis,” Minister Bina Magar’s personal secretary Dinesh Sagar Bhusal informs. It has been learned that the Commission also received a complaint claiming the leadership team led by General Manager Bhupendra Prasad embezzled the amount. Published on June 20th, Wednesday, 2018 10:33 AM 
Kathmandu, June 19 The ruling Nepal Communist Party is likely to authorise its lower committees to decide the pecking order of their leaders on their own. However, the committees have to keep in mind the date these leaders took the membership while fixing the order. A draft of regulation for the operation of newly unified party has made the provisions about the order. The draft has been sent to the Standing Committee. Besides the date of membership, contributions made by the leaders and their involvement in the party will also be considered for order. At the central level, the order for nine Secretariat members has been finalised. However, it has proposed that the Standing CommitteeÂ  can also fix its order of precedence. Meanwhile, some sister organisations of the party have expressed their dissatisfaction over the order of precedence proposed for them in the regulation draft.   Published on June 19th, Tuesday, 2018 2:55 PM 
 Bigunj, June 19 The government is planning to build 1200 hospitals around the country in the near future, says health minister Upendra Yadav. Tjhe government is also planning to roll out a new health policy, said the minister at a programme in Birgunj on Tuesday. “The 1200 hospitals will be of different sizes,” said Yadav adding that the establishment of the facilities will be guided by the new policy. Minister Yadav, who inspected Narayani Sub-regional hospital, told local officials that the facility will be develped into a leading health service provider in Province 2. “Narayani hospital is one of the oldest hospitals in Nepal. There was a time when the hospital was the best hospital in the region. But it could not move ahead with the times,” said the Minister. Yadav said that his government will also upgrade the infrastructure of the hospital. Published on June 19th, Tuesday, 2018 2:54 PM 
Butwal, June 19 The main opposition Nepali Congress has agreed to let the Province 5 Assembly resume its business after a day of obstruction. Earlier, the party had boycotted the legislative activity yesterday expressing its dissatisfaction over the budget announced by the provincial government. Following that, Provincial Speaker Purna Bahadur Gharti had postponed the meeting. In a bid to solve the problem, Chief Minister Shankar Pokhrel held a meeting with Congress leaders in Butwal today. During the meeting, the Chief Minister agreed to address ‘genuine’ demands of the party, hence it agreed to join the House, according to Congress parliamentary leader Baladev Sharma Pokharel. The next Assembly meeting has been scheduled for 1 pm today. Published on June 19th, Tuesday, 2018 11:07 AM 
 Butwal, June 18 The main opposition party Nepali Congress’ Province 5 unit has boycotted the day’s meeting of the provincial assembly expressing dissatisfaction over the government’s budget. Nepali Congress lawmakers stood up as the meeting was about to begin and began their protest. Lawmaker Dilli Chaudhary told the House that the budget reeked of bias. Despite frequent request from Speaker Purna Bahadur Gharti, Congress lawmakers boycotted the meeting. Nepali Congress whip Nirmala Chhetri said that the opposition would not attend the meeting till its demands were addressed. “The budget is biased. A huge amount of money has been allocated to some sectors and virtually nothing has been allocated to other important sectors. Development of all sectors is impossible without allocating the right budget to the right sector. This is not acceptable.” Published on June 18th, Monday, 2018 4:49 PM 
Kathmandu, June 18 A committee formed to recommend key provisions for the new statute of the recently-formed Nepal Communist Party has suggested that leaders be allowed to hold a particular office not more than two consecutive terms. The other key provision recommended by the committee says that a party leader won’t also be allowed to contest for the same position twice. “If we start the count from the day the party was formed, co-chairs KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahl can only contest for the Chairman post one last time. However, the party leaders are yet to decide on the cut-off date,” informed a party leader. Similarly, most leaders have suggested that the cut-off date be set after general convention only. The suggestions will now be discussed in the standing committee, and the party secretariat will prepare a proposal and present before the central committee. The committee has also recommended that the core leadership of the party be divided into eight groups such as the national convention, central committee, and central investigation committee, among others. Likewise, the provincial committee will also have a structure similar to the central committee with 175 members. The party shall also have 33 per cent women at all levels. Published on June 18th, Monday, 2018 4:45 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 18 Nepali Congress leader Sujata Koirala says the party urgently needs to skilful leaders to address challenges it faces. Koirala, however, said that President Sher Bahadur Deuba does not need to step down immediately. Speaking at a programme in Kathmandu on Monday, Sujata, who is also the daughter of NC stalwart GP Koirala, said, “Sher Bahadur Deuba need not to resign from the party’s leadership but needs to take responsibility for the loss in the three-tier elections held last year.” Stating that the party’s reputation was damaged by the loss, Koirala accused the leaders of indulging in nepotism. “There are many skilled cadres in every village. If only we understood their sentiments, we can re-establish the status and wake these cadres from their ‘asleep’ state.” She claimed that the party had failed to play the role of the main opposition. Koirala added that only the person who can adopt BP Koirala’s ideologies could lead the party. “The ‘Koirala’ family will not exist forever but the BP’s ideologies will. So, we need a leader who can move ahead while adopting these philosophy and ideologies.” Published on June 18th, Monday, 2018 2:36 PM 
Kathmandu, June 18 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli will address the House of Representatives to inform lawmakers about his China visit at 4:00 pm on Monday. The Prime Minister, leading his jumbo delegation, is embarking on a six-day official visit to China on Tuesday. According to sources, more than 100 representatives will set off to China with the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Oli will inform the lawmakers about agendas and preparations of the visit. Nepal is preparing to make agreements on energy, agriculture, and railway sectors with the northern neighbour during the trip. On Sunday, the Prime Minister had held a meeting with his predecessors seeking suggestions to finalise agendas for the visit.   Published on June 18th, Monday, 2018 10:34 AM 
Pokhara, June 17 An aircraft belonging to Yeti Airlines has veered off the runway of Pokhara Airport in Kaski district on Sunday afternoon while it was landing. No human casualty has been reported in the incident. The aircraft, with the call sign 9N AHU, landed on grasses after its hydraulic system did not work. The aircraft was carrying 20 passengers besides the cabin crew. The company says it has called a technical team from Kathmandu to identify the problem and repair the aeroplane. Published on June 17th, Sunday, 2018 4:23 PM 
Kathmandu, June 17 The government of Nepal says it will establish a separate mechanism for the implementation of China-supported programmes and projects. A Cabinet meeting held on Sunday afternoon approved the draft of agreement paper to be signed with China in this regard. According to Communications Minister Gokul Baskota, the meeting decided to give the authority of signing the agreement to Ministry of Foreign Affairs. “The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will sign the paper with the Chinese Foreign Affairs Ministry.” Accepting the proposal from MoFA, the meeting decided to establish the mechanism to implement past agreements made with the Chinese government, prior to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s official visit to the northern neighbour. Meanwhile, the Cabinet has also approved the organsational structure of Ministry of Education, Science and Technology; Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies; and Revenue Investigation Department. “The meeting has decided to cut down the number of board members of Nepal Drinking Water Corporation to nine from 19,” said Baskota.   Published on June 17th, Sunday, 2018 3:53 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 17 The term of a special committee formed to investigate into the 33.5-kilogram gold smuggling case has been extended its term for the second time. The Cabinet decided to extend the term by one month and sent a letter in this regard to the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Ministry had formed a special committee under the leadership of Joint Secretary Ishwor Poudel to investigate into the gold smuggling case on April 2. Earlier, the committee was also given the responsibility to investigate into the murder of gold trader Sajan Mukhiya in Birtamode of Jhapa on March 4. However, the committee did not find any connection between Mukhiya’s murder and 33.5 kg gold smuggling case. The government had asked the committee to complete their preliminary investigation within 45 days. However, 25 days were added to the investigation period after the committee failed to do so. “Now we will intensify search operation for alleged main investor Mohan Kumar Agrawal and the missing gold,” said an official of the committee. Published on June 17th, Sunday, 2018 1:43 PM 
Pokhara, June 17 Minister for Federal Affairs and General Administration Lalbabu Pandit says he will soon introduce a new law, according to which retired government staff will also be barred from joining national and international non-government organisations as employees, founders or officials till the end of second year of their retirement. Minister Pandit says that the provision is necessary so as to protect data and information the staff have about the government. “High officials mount their nameplates at offices of the NGOs the very day they retire,” the Nepal Communist Party leader said speaking at a function in Pokhara on Sunday, “All information they have get transferred there and the international NGOs will use them.” “But, we want to keep our information confidential. The government has invested in the staff and the country should get benefits of the investment.” To solve the problem, the government was also thinking of mobilising former officials in the government’s consultancy, according to him. “I have already established a council of former special class civil servants,” he said, “These people are livelong advisors to the nation. Currently, they have been providing consultancy to foreigners. But, I will make sure that they become consultants for the country itself.” Published on June 17th, Sunday, 2018 12:32 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 17 Former King Gyanendra Shah has visited the Thapathali-based Norvic International Hospital on Sunday morning. The former monarch visited the hospital for a regular heart checkup. He had survived a heart attack on September 21, 2014. Shah has been doing regular health checkup at the hospital since then. According to the former King’s aide, Phanindra Raj Pathak, Shah visited Norvic just for a normal checkup and not because of any other health problems. “He went to the hospital for a heart checkup, not because of any other illness,” added Pathak.           Published on June 17th, Sunday, 2018 11:15 AM 
Kathmandu, June 15 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli claimed he would revive all the dreams and wishes of Nepalis that might have already ‘gone into a coma’. Speaking at an event organised by the National Youth Council in Kathmandu on Friday, the Prime Minister said, “The dreams and aspirations of youth in our country have probably gone into a coma, I will revive all those dreams, and rebuild their confidence to fulfill those dreams.” Stating that every Nepali should contribute to developing the country, Oli said, “No development is going to happen till youth get the ‘my country’ feeling and participate in development activities.” The Prime Minister further commented on the trend of youth going to foreign countries for study and employment. Likewise, Oli also said he was committed to supporting the step taken by youth in science and technology sector.   Published on June 15th, Friday, 2018 4:15 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 15 Teams deployed from the Nepal Electricity Authority to monitor electricity theft in various parts of the country on Thursday arrested two people’s representatives, one each in Kavre and Saptari districts, for their alleged involvement in the crime. Narayan Lamsal and Ramananda Chaudhary, chairmen of Mandan Deupur Municipality-7 of Kavre district and Tirhut Rural Municipality-5 of Saptari district respectively, were arrested from their areas. Earlier, a meeting of Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa, Energy Minister Barsha Man Pun, Home Secretary Prem Kumar Rai, NEA Managing Director Kul Man Ghising and Nepal Police Chief Sarbendra Khana on Wednesday had decided to launch a special programme against electricity theft. Following the decision, district administration offices and district units of the NEA had launched a joint drive to control power leakage. It has been learned that both the arrests were made during operations of such joint committees. According to the NEA data, around 20 per cent electricity is leaked currently. It has set the target of reducing the leakage amount to 15 per cent in next three years. Published on June 15th, Friday, 2018 4:10 PM 
Pokhara, June 15 As many as five persons, including an Onlinekhabar journalist, were injured when Pokhara Lekhnath Mayor Man Bahadur GC operated an excavator to ‘inaugurate’ the construction of a trail in the city. Those injured in the Khani Khola incident are: Sandesh Shrestha, Ranjan Adhikari, and Gauri Poudel among others.  Locals and journalists were leaning against a fence to take pictures of the event when Mayor GC, who was inside the vehicle along with its operator, ‘pressed the lever accidentally’. The excavator’s bucket was set loose and it damaged the fence. People leaning against the fence fell onto a ravine. The injured are receiving treatment at the Metro City hospital in Pokhara. Published on June 15th, Friday, 2018 3:30 PM 
 Kavre, June 15 Passengers and vehicles have been stranded along the BP Highway following landslides and flooding since Friday morning. Vehicular movement was obstructed since 5:00 am on Friday after a landslip in Kavre. Murky water in the Khahare River after a heavy rainfall caused landslip at Kaldhunga in Roshi Rural Municipality in Kavre district, obstructing the Highway. Police have been trying to remove the debris and resume traffic along the road section. According to Mangaltar Area Police Office, they have already informed the Road Division Office about the incident. Likewise, a team of police from the APO has reached the incident site. Published on June 15th, Friday, 2018 10:31 AM 
 Kathmandu, June 14 Various agreements including those for crossborder electricity transmission line, railway and energy coordinated will be the prime agendas of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s official visit to China. Informing the media about the Prime Minister’s schedule, Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Gyawali said, “Agreements on reconstruction works post the 2015 earthquake might also be signed during the visit. The visit will also focus on the implementation of past agreements.” “Agreements on a ministerial level mechanism between both the countries, construction of two bridges in Rasuwagadhi, and protocol related to  transit and transport will also be signed during the visit,” the Minister added. A joint agreement on production of 1,000 megawatt electricity in various places of Marsyangdi river will be made between Butwal Power Company of Nepal and SCIG company in China. The Prime Minister is embarking on a five-day official visit to China on June 19. The government has already announced his itinerary and team members yesterday. Published on June 14th, Thursday, 2018 4:11 PM 
Kathmandu, June 14 The Tatopani Customs Point at the Nepal-China border will resume its operation from May next year, says Nepal’s Foreign Affairs Minister. Various discussions were held to open the Tatopani Customs Point next year in May, informed Minister for Foreign Affairs, Pradeep Gyawali, talking to mediapersons in the Capital today. The northern neighbour will open the point once Nepal completes constructing the road from its side, he added. The customs clearance of Tatopani will probably be done from Nyalam, situated at the Nepal-China border. Nepal had initiated to open the border point that was shut after the Gorkha earthquake in 2015. Following that, traders have been using Rasuwagadhi customs point, which is farther from Kathmandu than Tatopani and involves difficult roadway.       Published on June 14th, Thursday, 2018 3:09 PM 
Kathmandu, June 14 The main opposition party Nepali Congress has warned of leaving the Federal Parliament if either the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker does not resign. The constitution has it that the two top officials of the House of Representatives must belong to different parties. Earlier, the balance was maintained as Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara represented then CPN-Maoist Centre whereas the Deputy Speaker Shiva Maya Tumbahamphe represented then CPN-UML. However, the two parties later merged into the Nepal Communist Party. Following the merger, theÂ  Congress has been demanding that one of them resign. The ruling NCP, however, argues that no one should resign as both of them have already ‘left’ their parties after getting elected to the parliamentary positions. Speaking at the House of Representatives meeting today, Congress lawmaker Minendra Rijal warned against misinterpreting the constitution to meet party interests. He warned that the party would leave Parliament and go to the people if the demand was not heeded. Published on June 14th, Thursday, 2018 12:29 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 14 The government has amended the Customs Regulation 2007 for the ninth time. As per the new rule, businesspersons must renew their exim code, an identification number provided to exporters and importers, every year. The rule in renewal was added to the Rule 66, Sub-rule ‘Gha’. The renewal must be made before the beginning of new fiscal year. Nepal’s fiscal year begins in mid-July every year. The businesspersons should submit tax payment certificate, Rs 5,000 cash, and a balance of Rs 300,000 with the application. Similarly, a coordination committee will be formed to solve the problems that might arise at the Customs Office time and again. According to General Director of the Customs Department Toyam Rai, the new rule will help in minimising various ill practices prevalent in the sector.     Published on June 14th, Thursday, 2018 12:15 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 14 A team of Airport Authority of India has arrived in Nepal to discuss additional air routes to enter Nepal, on Thursday. A technical team from both Nepal and India will finalise new routes through talks, informed Joint Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Buddhi Sagar Lamichhane. At present, the international flights enter Nepal through Simara only. But, Nepal has been asking for more air routes through Nepalgunj, Mahendranagar, Bhairahawa, Biratnagar, and Janakpur for the international flights to enter the country. “We will discuss Mahendranagar, Nepalgunj, and Janakpur routes. We will also propose opening routes via Bhaiahawa and Biratnagar,” added Lamichhane. Flights from China enter Nepal via Lhasa and above Mt Everest. Likewise, flights from Bhutan enter through Mechi zone. But, flights from other countries can enter Nepal only from Simara. The discussion is being held to add other routes for entrance. A similar meeting held in 2010 and 2016 had ended inconclusively. India has been refusing to provide other routes citing security reasons.     Published on June 14th, Thursday, 2018 10:43 AM 
Kathmandu, June 13 At least three of 10 committees to be formed in the House of Representatives will be led by women as the newly implemented HoRÂ  Regulation reserves 33 per cent share of committee leadership to women. The Regulation says there will be 10 committees in the Lower House, including Finance; International Relations; Industry, Commerce, Labour and Consumer Interests; Law, Justice and Human Rights; Agriculture, Cooperative and Natural Resources; State Affairs; Women and Social Issues; Development and Technology; Education and Health; and Public Accounts Committee. Three of such committees will be led by women. In addition, there will three special committees including Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee, Impeachment Committee and Special Authority Committee. At least one of them should be led by women. Customarily, the Public Accounts Committee will be led by the main opposition party. Other committees are most likely to be led by the ruling Nepal Communist Party and Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal. Published on June 13th, Wednesday, 2018 2:10 PM 
Kathmandu, June 13 A proposal to promote 47 lieutenant colonels to the vacant positions of colonels of Nepal Army has been stuck halfway as some officials filed a complaint at the Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers against the proposal. The complainants have claimed that Chief of Army Staff Rajendra Chhetri changed some names in the list of officials recommended for promotion so that his favourite ones will be superior than others. After Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence Ishwar Pokharel endorsed Chhetri’s proposal without any question, the alleged victims went to the Prime Minister’s Office demanding the review on the list, according to a source. Earlier, the proposal was scheduled to tabled at the Cabinet meeting on Monday. However, after the complaint, the proposal was put on hold. Chhetri has been accused of tampering with the list of officials prepared on the basis of seniority as he wanted to ensure that his favourites would get to the top post in next few years, claim the complainants. Published on June 13th, Wednesday, 2018 1:00 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 13 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has provided Rs 700,000 to the father of a person who donated him a kidney as a medical treatment cost through a Cabinet decision. The Prime Minister handed over the amount to Dhruba Ghimire, father of donor Anjana. Anjana also happens to be a distant relative of Oli whereas Ghimire is the then CPN-UMLâ€™s cadre. Similarly, various meetings of the Oli Cabinet have provided the medical assistance to various other leaders including Rastriya Janata Party Nepal presidium member Mahantha Thakur, former minister late Khum Bahadur Khadka, the then UML leader late Jagrit Bhetwal, and leaders Bishweshwor Dahal and Laba Pradhan Mitra. The RJPN de facto chair Thakur, however, refused to accept the support that was provided from the state fund. Despite its pledged efforts to control the haphazard distribution of the budget from the treasury, the Nepal Communist Party-led government has not taken any measure to restrict the distribution of medical aids. Published on June 13th, Wednesday, 2018 12:44 PM 
   Kathmandu, June 12 The Department of Hydrology and Meteorology has said that monsoon is yet to become fully active nationwide. The Department had announced the arrival of monsoon in the country on June 8. According to Meteorologist Barun Poudel, monsoon has been active in some areas of eastern and central Nepal. “It is likely to take some more days to move from east to westward and become fully active.” The central part continues to witness rains at night. Likewise, rainfall has been forecast in surroundings of the Kathmandu Valley and eastern region this evening. Though monsoon is active in the eastern part, maximum rainfall is measured at 45 millimetres on average. There is seemingly no possibility of water-induced disasters for some days as heavy rainfall is yet to occur in the disaster-prone areas. Monsoon in Nepal tentatively begins on June 10. RSS Published on June 12th, Tuesday, 2018 4:35 PM 
Kathmandu, June 12 Department of Money Laundering Investigation has started an investigation with three key suspects of 33.5 kg gold smuggling case suspecting they illegally earned properties. According to Binod Lamichhane, Spokesperson at the Department, alleged mastermind Chundamani Upreti aka Gore, Bhujung Gurung and Chhiring Wangdel aka Dr David were taken to the Department and investigation process has started. During the process, the suspects will also be provided a chance to clarify themselves. “Everyone who is involved in the case will be brought to investigation circle,” he said. The Department had brought the three suspects to Kathmandu from Morang Jail and Jhumka Jail in Sunsari on Monday. The Morang District Court had already given the permission to police to take them to the capital.   Published on June 12th, Tuesday, 2018 4:03 PM 
Kathmandu, June 12 The government of Nepal has forwarded a proposal to the country’s private entrepreneurs, calling them to establish a partnership for a heavy equipment leasing company so as to expedite infrastructural development works. During a meeting with private sector leaders recently, Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada said the establishment would address the problems caused by lack of heavy equipment in the construction business. In response, the entrepreneurs also said they were positive about the proposal and further discussions would be needed to implement the plan. “Major problems in the construction sector are due to our capacity. Contractors take big responsibilities though they do not have sufficient capacity and equipment,” Khatiwada said, “Keeping these things in mind, I proposed to establish a leasing and consultancy company jointly.” Currently, the country borrows modern machinery from other countries including India and the United Arab Emirates. The government also does not have such equipment. Published on June 12th, Tuesday, 2018 3:44 PM 
Chitwan, June 12 As many as seven landslides have obstructed vehicular movement along the Narayangadh-Muglin road in Chitwan district following significant rainfalls since Monday evening. The landslides occurred after 11:20 pm on Monday. According to the District Police Office, more than seven locations including Kalikhola, and Jalveere among other places have been obstructed due to the landslips. However, the one-way vehicular movement had started along the section from 3:20 am today. Police with the help of bulldozers and excavators are trying to remove the debris since 6:00 in the morning today.   Published on June 12th, Tuesday, 2018 10:59 AM 
Kathmandu, June 12 The Constitutional Council is holding its meeting on Tuesday to recommend the name of new Chief Justice at the Supreme Court. The position is vacant since then Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli was removed from the position in March after finding that he already crossed his retirement date. The senior-most Justice Deepak Raj Joshee has taken the charge of Acting Chief Justice since then. Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, who also heads the Council, has called a meeting for 5 pm at his official residence in Baluwatar today. The Council’s members include main opposition party leader Sher Bahadur Deuba, Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara, National Assembly Chair Ganesh Prasad Timilsina among others. The Judicial Council has already forwarded three names including Joshee, Om Prakash Mishra and Cholendra Shamsher Rana for the position. The Constitutional Council, however, delayed the decision as the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee was yet to be formed. Now, with the endorsement of regulations for both houses of the Federal Parliament, the Special Committee is expected to be formed soon. The Committee will conduct hearings over names recommended for constitutional appointments including the Chief Justice, chiefs of constitutional positions and ambassadors. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Council is also likely to hold a discussion over names for the chief of Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority as the position is vacant after the retirement of Deep Basnyat. Published on June 12th, Tuesday, 2018 10:47 AM 
 Kathmandu, June 11 A committee formed to investigate into the 38-quintal gold smuggling case raided RK Jewellers, a jewellery shop in New road and Durbar Marg, in Kathmandu on Monday. Police along with the team led by coordinator of the committee, Ishwor Raj Poudel, raided the jewellery shop and seized huge cache of gold, according to sources. The operator of the gold shop, Rajendra Shakya, has already been arrested in the gold smuggling case. Likewise, police had raided the house of Mohan Kumar Agrawal, who is said to be the main investor of gold in the case, and confiscated Rs 3 million cash, two kilograms of silver and 10 tolas of gold on Friday.     Published on June 11th, Monday, 2018 8:00 PM 
Kathmandu, June 11 Police have found the body of a 13-year-old boy from Katahariya Municipality-9 in Rautahat district. The deceased has been identified as Yubaraj Sah, son of Dilip Sah of Dumariya in the Municipality. He was reportedly abducted by an unidentified group from his bed last Saturday. Police recovered his body on the bank of Bagmati River, around 15 kilometres away from the Municipality, on Monday morning. After the kidnapping, the abductors had called Dilip and asked Rs 10 million ransom. “The minor was shot at on his head. The body has been sent to the District Hospital in Gaur for an autopsy,” informed SI Manoj Yadav. Meanwhile, police arrested five suspects including Binod Kumar Patel and Ravi Kumar Patel of Vrindavan Municipality, and Prabin Rai Yadav, Shakti Rai Yadav, and Sunil Kumar Yadav of Dumariya in Katariya-9. Police are looking into the case.   Published on June 11th, Monday, 2018 12:05 PM 
Kathmandu, June 11 Minister for Agriculture, Land Management, and Cooperatives, Chakrapani Khanal, monitored a production centre at Balaju Industrial Area in Kathmandu on Monday. At the time when media are publishing stories about the production of substandard milk products, the Agriculture Minister monitored the Aadhunik Dairy Products this morning. A team of officials at the Ministry along with media persons found out that the production centre was using milkpowders with no manufacturing date on it. The centre also did not meet required cleanliness standards. Similarly, the monitoring team also discovered that the centre was not using good production system while making the dairy products. The team then sealed the warehouse where the milkpowder packets with no date were stored. The team has intensified market monitoring in various areas of late.     Published on June 11th, Monday, 2018 11:24 AM 
 Kathmandu, June 11 A 26-year-old Nepali migrant worker attempted to commit suicide after alleged mental torture from his supervisor in Macau, a local television informed. Ishwor Thing slit his neck with a sharp weapon after failing to tolerate the ignorance of his recruitment agency and mental torture from his Filipino supervisor. Thing had paid Rs 1.2 million to a recruitment agent, Bishal Thapaliya, to go to Macau around a month ago. On the other hand, it has been learnt that Global Securities, his employer, had received MOP 50,000 (around Rs 670,000) from the agent to provide him the job. The Filipino supervisor, Joey, had been threatening the victim ever since he joined the company. According to Macau police, the company authorities would be able to hire new employees if Thing left the job. “He attempted suicide inside his hostel room. He had come to Macau taking a loan of Rs 1.2 million and the company said they would not refund the amount. He then tried committing suicide” Thing is undergoing treatment at local Sangteng Hospital. It has been learnt that a local agent and Non-Resident Nepalis Association leader Yubaraj Neupane had sent a demand letter to Thapaliya. Meanwhile, the family has demanded strict action against the agent. Published on June 11th, Monday, 2018 10:42 AM 
 Kathmandu, June 10 The main opposition party, the Nepali Congress, has demanded that either the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives tender their resignation. The Nepali Congress says that according to the constitution, people who belong to the same party cannot hold the two key positions in Parliament. NC Chief Whip Pushpa Bhusal said, “Now that the Election Commission has registered Nepal Communist Party, they should not occupy both the positions,” she added. Then Maoist lawmaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara, was unanimously elected Speaker while the then UML leader Shiva Maya Tumbahamphe beat Bhusal in the race to claim the deputy post. The NCP says that as both Mahara and Bhusal have already resigned from the party to take up their new roles, it is not necessary to step down from their official positions. Published on June 10th, Sunday, 2018 3:35 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 10 Police have seized a Katuwa pistol and three rounds of bullets from a locker inside the Radiology Department of Maharajgunj-based Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital on Sunday. A team deployed from the Kathmandu Metropolitan Police Range confiscated the items from the locker room. Earlier, the hospital administration had issued a notice asking the locker’s owner to claim the locker as no one had used it,” said DSP Mohan Thapa at the Range. “Each locker had the name of its owner written on it. But, nobody contacted the administration to claim the unused locker. So, the administration staff contacted us,” he added. According to sources, the hospital authorities do not have any record of the belongings inside the locker. Police are looking into the case.   Published on June 10th, Sunday, 2018 3:28 PM 
 Biratnagar, June 10 Rastriya Janata Party Nepal leader Rajendra Mahato says his party is not prepared to join the KP Sharma Oli-led government yet. The Madheshi leader further clarified that the party will not join the government unless the agreement is reached to amend the constitution to address the demands of the Madhesh movements. Talking to reporters in Biratnagar, Mahato said that talks with the government can only begin when prosecutors withdraw all charges against Madheshi activists arrested during various movements in on party cadres. “We will think about joining the government only if they are ready to amend the constitution. I know these things do not happen overnight, but they could at least talk about amendments,” said Mahato. “We will join the government once the ruling party gives us confirmation on the matter,” he added. Published on June 10th, Sunday, 2018 2:52 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 8 Rastriya Prajatantra Party and Rastriya Prajatantra Party (Democratic) have formed separate committees to enter into a merger with parties that share the same ideology. RPP-Democratic’s working committee is led by of vice-president Deepak Bohara. The team includes Bikram Pandey, Sunil Bahadur Thapa and Thakur Prasad Sharma. Earlier, the Kamal Thapa-led RPP had formed a separate committee consisting of vice-chair Buddhiman Tamang, Tanka Dahal, and General Secretary Rajendra Lingden. According to RPP, the committee was formed to discuss and coordinate the possibility of merger with other parties with similar ideologies. RPP, RPP-Unified and RPP (Democratic) have been coordinating with one another for merger after failing to emerge victorious in the three-tier election held last year. Published on June 8th, Friday, 2018 4:51 PM 
Kathmandu, June 8 The preliminary feasibility study for the proposed Raxaul-Kathmandu railway has begun on Friday. Nepal’s Department of Railways says a team comprising technicians from India and Nepal are carrying out the study. In the first phase of the study, they will observe a place in Chobhar of Kathmandu where a railway station is proposed, according to the Department’s senior engineer Prakash Bhakta Upadhyaya. Meanwhile, the Nepal government has put on hold the process it had begun to recruit a company for the project after Indian government told Kathmandu that it would cover all the costs. The railway will be 113 kilometre long. Around 20 per cent of it will be tunnels and bridges. The report of preliminary study is expected within next three months. After that, the detailed project report will be prepared. It will take take 15 months. Even if everything goes well, the actual construction will begin after around two years only. Published on June 8th, Friday, 2018 4:27 PM 
Kathmandu, June 8 For the first time ever, the government has started imposing 13 per cent telecommunications charge on the use of internet service from this year. The charge of 11 per cent that was only enforced on telephone service suppliers has now increased to 13 per cent.  The government has also decided to enforce the same percentage on internet suppliers as well. According to World Link Communication Owner Bijay Jalan, the new rule will increase the cost of internet service. “We still have no clue why the government enforced this law.” However, Revenue Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Shishir Dhungana, said that the reason behind the new rule was the decrease in use of ‘voice service’ over telephones due to internet services. “These days people mostly use voice over internet protocol apps like Viber, WeChat, WhatsApp among others for voice call. All voice calls are getting transferred to the internet. Hence, we started charging this fee,” said Dhungana. Published on June 8th, Friday, 2018 4:14 PM 
Dang, June 8 A five-year-old minor was killed and 27 others were injured, 11 critically,Â  after a bus they were travelling in met with an accident in Dang this morning. An Indian national, Nirubi Mohammad of Lakhinpur in India, died on the spot in the incident. The bus (Na 5 Kha 1821) heading towards Nepalgunj from Janakpur plunged into a river, along the Bhalubang-Laqmahi road section, at Paharuwa of Rapti Rural Municipality at 6:00 am on Friday. The driver might have dozed off while driving the vehicle, police suspected. Of the 33 passengers, 27 injured including another minor were rushed to Kohalpur in Banke for treatment. Remaining injured are undergoing treatment at Lamahi Hospital.   Published on June 8th, Friday, 2018 2:34 PM 
 Achham, June 8 Police have taken eighteen minors and two men under control from Western Gadda Station in Kanchanpur on their way to India on Friday. Ram Bahadur Buda (53) and Ratan BK (48), along with 12 boys and three girls, were taken under control with the help of India Seema Surakshya Bal (SSB) at the Indo-Nepal border in Achham. The preliminary investigation showed that they were the residents of Dhakari Rural Municipality-7 in Achham and were being taken to the southern neighbour for job opportunities with permission from their parents. The minors have been given shelter at the Maiti Nepal as of now. According to Inspector Karna Bahadur Bam, they were being taken for job with permission from guardians, but it has not been cleared yet.   Published on June 8th, Friday, 2018 11:56 AM 
Kathmandu, June 7 No political party has been able to induct at least 33 per cent women to its central committee, it has been found The Election Commission has directed all parties to induct 33 per cent women representatives in their respective central committees within three months as per the political party-related laws. The issue raised after registration of the Nepal Communist Party has dragged all other political parties into the matter. Talking to Onlinekhabar, Chief Election Commissioner Ayodhee Yadav said,” All political parties should fulfill the provision mentioned in the political parties-related law. Now onwards, they should manage and transform the parties as per the new code.” Even the four big political parties NCP, Nepali Congress, Rastriya Janata Party Nepal and Federal Socialist Forum have failed to meet the regulations. There are only 75 women in NCP’s central committee, 16 in Congress, 129 in RJPN, and 28 women in Forum’s. Published on June 7th, Thursday, 2018 10:34 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 7 The Special Court has acquitted all six footballers, including the former national skipper Sagar Thapa, accused of match-fixing. A division bench of Justices Baburam Regmi, Pramod Kumar Shrestha Baidya and Narayan Prasad Pokharel handed clean chits to the suspects, who were accused of committing a crime against the state. Thapa, former vice-captain Sandeep Rai, footballers Ritesh Thapa, Anjan Bista, Bikash Chhetri and Anjan KC were arrested three years ago. Although they had confessed to fixing several of Nepal’s international matches, they changed their statements when presented before the court. Although the court has acquitted them, football’s world governing body FIFA has placed a life ban on all of them. Published on June 7th, Thursday, 2018 2:42 PM 
Kathmandu, June 7 Controversial Executive Director of Nepal Oil Corporation, Gopal Bahadur Khadka, has resigned from his post. Organsing a press conference in the Capital on Thursday, Khadka announced his resignation from the position. He said various national and international forces plotted conspiracies against him and he was quitting to pave their way forward. Khadka was dragged into a corruption case for his involvement in irregularities while purchasing land in various parts of the country to build petroleum storage facilities. Then, the government had removed him from the Corporation. The official, however, filed a case at the Supreme Court against his removal, to get reinstated. The government, however, transferred him to the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies. He was further accused of not cooperating with the government and promoting factionalism in the organisation. Various parliamentary committees and an investigation team formed by the Ministry had concluded that Khadka embezzled millions of rupees from the state coffers to purchase land in various provinces. Published on June 7th, Thursday, 2018 11:51 AM 
Kathmandu, June 7 Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal Chairperson Upendra Yadav says his party is not preparing for the merger with Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s Nepal Communist Party anytime soon. Whereas some media have claimed that the two parties have begun informal negotiations for the unification after the merger of then CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre into the NCP, Yadav says the reports are baseless. Some media had claimed that the Forum is willing to merge with the NCP and its decision to join the government is also an indication for the desire to become a part of the big party. However, Yadav, also a Deputy Prime Minister in Oli’s Cabinet, says his party is open to unification with likeminded parties and organisations in the future though such a possibility is slim anytime soon. He says a recent meeting of the party has decided to unify with the parties which have similar policies, principles and ideologies, no concrete steps have been taken towards that end after that. Published on June 7th, Thursday, 2018 11:02 AM 
Kathmandu, June 6 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa says that the investigation on the 33.5-kilogram gold smuggling case and the murder of one of suspects is underway and everyone involved in the case will face strict action. Speaking at a press conference organised in the ministry today, the Home Minister informed, “Involvement of new persons is being found with new truths being unfolded with every step of investigation. Let us hope to catch some big fish here.” Thapa’s comment follows reports that alleged smugglers and their lawyers have piled pressure on the government to put the investigation on hold as the smuggled gold has not been found yet. It was being said that the smuggling case would get settled in few days without any substantial result and those facing punishment would also be released. However, the Ministry further said that a helper of Chudamani Upreti aka Gore, alleged mastermind of the case, was arrested on Tuesday.         Published on June 6th, Wednesday, 2018 2:58 PM 
Butwal, June 6 A road tunnel will be constructed to from Chidiyakhola of Rupandehi to Dobhan of Palpa along the Siddhartha Highway in Province 5 to skip possible landslides near Siddhababa in Palpa, says Minister for Physical Infrastructure and Transport Raghubir Mahaseth. Around 70 persons have lost their lives in past 10 years along the three-kilometre section here in the accidents caused by landslides. Maheseth, while visiting the road section on Wednesday, claimed the construction works would begin as soon as the new fiscal year starts in mid-July. The Minister has also directed concerned officials to submit the report about how to carry out the project within next one week. “I should receive the report in one week so that the construction works will begin in the new fiscal year,” he said, “The plans proposed by this government in the recently announced in the budget are not just to show off, but to implement.” “This government is different from previous ones. You will know it within next three to four months, once we will begin the construction works.” Minister Mahaseth had visited the site accompanied by top officials of the Ministry and Department of Roads.     Published on June 6th, Wednesday, 2018 2:53 PM 
Kathmandu, June 6 The government has revoked its decision of changing the rate of capital gains tax calculation after investors protested the decision. Whereas the government used to enforce five per cent CGT on the trade of bonus and rights share in the secondary market. Along with the increase in the CGT to 7.5 per cent through the federal budget 2018/19 on May 29, the Inland Revenue Department had also changed the CGT calculation method. The government will now continue to calculate CGT using the previous rate. The investors had been organising different forms of protests, shutting down the office of Nepal Stock Exchange against the government decision to impose capital gain tax on the difference of market price and base price of bonus and right shares. “The Ministry of Finance has sent a letter to the Inland Revenue Department ordering them to calculate CGT using precious rate,” informed Jhakka Prasad Acharya, spokesperson at the Ministry.   Published on June 6th, Wednesday, 2018 2:28 PM 
Rautahat, June 5 Chief Minister of Province 2, Lalbabu Raut, has said that his government formed in coalition with the Rastriya Janata Party Nepal will not topple. Speaking at a press conference organised in Gaur of the district today, the Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal leader said that rumours of new Chief Minister were baseless. After Raut’s party joined the federal government whereas the RJPN is not, it was rumoured that the Nepal Communist Party, which leads the federal government, wanted to change the government leadership in Province 2 by forming the coalition with Forum. But, Raut claimed, “The alliance with Rastriya Janata Party Nepal is the core of mandate of this provincial government. This government will rule for the next five years.” The Chief Minister further claimed that the central government did not spend even a single penny for the preparation of the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Janakpur. Meanwhile, Raut further said he was committed to taking forward the plans and programmes made by the provincial government through budget in the upcoming days.             Published on June 5th, Tuesday, 2018 4:22 PM 
Kathmandu, June 5 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa has reiterated that the Nepal government is commitment to One China Policy. Receiving Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Yu Hong as she paid a courtesy visit to him at Ministry of Home Affairs in Singha Durbar today, Minister Thapa said that the government would not tolerate any activities against the policy in the country. Likewise, Thapa commented that the Nepal-China border was being used for smuggling gold and foreign currencies, and further requested support from the Chinese government to control such illegal activities. In response, the envoy said that she would inform her government about the issue. Various matters related to bilateral relation and mutual interest were discussed in the meeting. Meanwhile, the Chinese envoy also showed positive response towards the official visit of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli to the northern neighbour. The Prime Minister will be embarking on a five-day state visit to China from June 19.   Published on June 5th, Tuesday, 2018 3:47 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 5 Meteorologists have said that monsoon will officially begin in Nepal before this weekend as the premonsoon activities have actively started across the country. Various places including Kathmandu have been receiving rainfall and witness the gloomy weather for the past few days as the premonsoon phase has already started to end its effects in the country. Recent sudden changes in weather are signs of beginning of monsoon, according to experts. Monsoon is around the corner and the current changes are symptoms of the same, said meteorologists. Monsoon will enter into the country from eastern region, gradually picking up the pace to cover the whole country. Meteorologists further inform that the rainy season begins around June 10 in the country generally.   Published on June 5th, Tuesday, 2018 3:09 PM 
 Chitwan, June 5 The two-way vehicular movement along the Narayangadh-Muglin road section, which was obstructed following a landslide at around 5:00 am on Tuesday, has resumed from 10:00 this morning. Only one-way traffic was operated in the morning. That too was shut after the landslip blocked the whole road section while trying to clear the debris, informed Chitwan Traffic Police Office Chief, Santosh Pant. Continuous rainfall has been blamed for the landslip. The rainfall had created difficulty in clearing the road. However, the task was over at 10 and the two-way movement resumed now, according to police. Though the road is blocked for vehicle from 10 am to 4 pm everyday for upgrading works, the bar will not be imposed today until all stuck vehicles will pass towards their destination, according to authorities. Only 9.4 per cent of upgrading work is remained to be completed on the road.   Published on June 5th, Tuesday, 2018 10:44 AM 
 Kailali, June 5 A tremor was felt in various districts of far-western region of Nepal on Tuesday morning. According to the National Seismology Centre, the earthquake of 4.9 magnitude with its epicentre in Bajura at coordinates 29.68°  81.65° was felt at 7:19 am. The tremor was also felt in adjoining districts including Achham, Doti, Bajhang, Dadeldhura and Darchula districts. No human casualties has been reported yet.   Published on June 5th, Tuesday, 2018 10:00 AM 
Kathmandu, June 4 Newly unified Nepal Communist Party has started forming lower committees including provincial and district organisations. The committees are supposed to be formed within three months. The party was formed with the merger of then CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre. Now, existing lower committees of the parties will be merged. As per sources, of the seven provinces, the UML side will lead four provinces whereas the Maoists will lead remaining three provinces. An informal proposal put forth stated that the then Maoists would be provided the authority to lead 30 of total 77 districts, and the allocation would be done on the basis of public vote, seniority, and need of the districts. A secretariat would also be formed in the districts. Meanwhile, the party directive stops ministers of federal government, chief ministers of province and chiefs of local levels from beingÂ  chiefs of the executive committees. They, however, can be members. It is also likely that the chiefs of seven provinces and 35 departments will be chosen by the 45-member Standing Committee.   Published on June 4th, Monday, 2018 4:53 PM 
Pokhara, June 4 Province 4 Assembly is most likely to choose Pokhara as its provincial capital. A Provincial Assembly meeting to be held on Monday will discuss naming the Province and fixing its capital. Earlier, the Assembly had formed a committee to collect people’s opinions about the issues, and it is submitting its report to the Assembly today. It is expected that Pokhara will be proposed as the single option for capital. The report, however, will suggest different options for the name. The name that garners most votes will be ranked accordingly. According to a leader, Gandaki has gathered highest number of supporters during the preparation of the report. Meanwhile, Gurung and Magarat communities have been staging a protest demanding that the Province name be Tamuwan-Magarat. The Tamuwan-Magarat Struggle Committee has also submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister regarding the same. Chief Minister of Province 4, Prithvi Subba Gurung, however, has said that no province will be named after ethnic groups.     Published on June 4th, Monday, 2018 1:38 PM 
 Dhangadhi, June 4 Police have arrested the alleged mastermind of a shooting and robbery case that took place in Dhangadhi Sub-Metropolitan City-1 of Kailali district around a week ago. Kalu Rana alias Kallu (23) of Pipariya in Krishnapur-9, and Ram Pravesh Rana (28) of Dhangadhi-13 were arrested from Gongabu area in Kathmandu on Monday for their alleged involvement in robbery of Rs 900,000. According to SSP Dhiraj Pratap Singh, chief at Metropolitan Police Crime Division in Kathmandu, Kallu is mastermind of the crime. Police had intensified the search operation after the incident. The duo had shot at 37-year-old Nirmal Karki while he was on his way to a bank to deposit the money. The accused had reportedly come on a motorcycle, shot Karki and fled the scene robbing his cash.     Published on June 4th, Monday, 2018 12:07 PM 
Kathmandu, June 4 Minister for Agriculture Chakrapani Khanal has monitored the vegetable market in Kalimati of Kathmandu this morning. On the occasion,Â Minister Khanal assured to end the existence of syndicates prevailing in the kalimati vegetable market. The Minister, along with various other officials from the Ministry, monitored more than three dozen shops amidst complaints about various activities in the market. After concluding the market monitoring, Minister Khanal said that the market would be managed properly and necessary decisions would be made after holding a meeting with Kalimati Fruits and Vegetable Market Development Board. Likewise, Khanal also said that the fish market inside the premises would be shifted to other areas as foul smell had spread around.   Published on June 4th, Monday, 2018 11:07 AM 
Kathmandu, June 3 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa and Minister for Forest and Environment Shakti Basnet have conducted a pollution test of vehicles plying Kathmandu roads on Sunday. On the occasion of World Environment Day, which will be celebrated this Tuesday, both the ministers went out on roads and conducted the vehicle emission test under the campaign hosted by the Ministry of Forest and Environment on Sunday morning. Speaking in front of the media, Home Minister Thapa said that vehicles should be monitored time and again to minimisesair pollution as it is directly linked with peopleâ€™s health. Likewise, Minister for Forest and Environment Basnet informed that a new cleanup campaign would be organised from Tuesday with an aim to control pollution, manage garbage, and promote greenery across the country. Published on June 3rd, Sunday, 2018 2:43 PM 
Kathmandu, June 3 Constitutional anti-corruption watchdog, Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority, has launched a probe into reports that officials of Bir Hospital embezzled as much as Rs 2 billion from the state coffers in past few years. On the other hand, National Vigilance Centre has launched another investigation. The two bodies have received a 84-point complaint citing instances of corruption and irregularities in Nepal’s oldest health facility. Earlier, the annual report of Auditor General had also cited some irregularities in the facility. The report informed that around Rs 100 million was embezzled in purchase of CT scan machines. It had also mentioned irregularities in the purchase of equipment for National Trauma Centre and renewal of registration of pharmacies at the hospital premises. It has been learned that the investigation will cover a wide range of officials from top guns to office assistants.     Published on June 3rd, Sunday, 2018 1:39 PM 
Kathmandu, June 3 A day after returning home from medical treatment in India, Rastrakabi Madhav Prasad Ghimire has again been admitted to Tokha-based Grande International Hospital on Sunday. The 99-year-old popular poet has been diagnosed with bilateral pneumonia (double pneumonia) and is being treated at the ICU of the hospital, informed doctors. He had been admitted to the hospital earlier as well due to heart, kidney and lungs-related ailments. Ghimire was taken to Medanta Hospital in New Delhi of India on May 23 for treatment after his internal bleeding failed to stop here. Published on June 3rd, Sunday, 2018 12:12 PM 
Hetaunda, June 3 An interaction programme of Ministers of Internal Affairs and Law from all seven provinces of the country has started in Hetaunda on Sunday. The programme was organised with an objective to create friendly coordination and bring uniformity in works of all provinces. Province 3 government has hosted the event. Ministers Hikmat Kumar Karki of Province 1, Gyanendra Yadav of Province 2, Salikram Jammarkattel of Province 3, Hari Bahadur Chuman of Province 4, Kul Prasad KC of Province 5, Naresh Bhandari of Province 6 and Prakash Shah of Province 7 attended the interaction. Chief Minister of Province 3 Dor Mani Poudel also attended the inaugural. Published on June 3rd, Sunday, 2018 11:16 AM 
 Kathmandu, June 1 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has appointed two ministers as his deputies. Defence Minister Ishwor Pokhrel, who was already a member of the Cabinet, and Upendra Yadav, who was inducted to the Cabinet on Friday, have taken theirÂ oaths of office as Deputy Prime Minister. According to sources, NCP leader and then Maoist leader Ram Bahadur Thapa also wanted the post, but Prime Minister Oli had denied him saying that he would not appoint any deputy. However, following the merger of the Maoist Centre party with the UML, Thapa dropped his demand. Similarly, Minister of State for Information Gokul Banskota has been promoted to minister. Md Istakiya Rine of the Upendra Yadav-led Federal Socialist Forum has been named Minister for Urban Development. Published on June 1st, Friday, 2018 9:08 PM 
 Hetauda, June 1 The government of Province 3 has announced plans to ban fossil-fuelled vehicles in key cities such as Kathmandu, Chitwan, Hetauda, Banepa, Dhulikhel and Panauti in the next ten years According to the announcement made during the presentation of the government’s annual policy and programmes, fossil-fuelled vehicles won’t be allowed to ply after 2028. The government says that the plans have been introduced to encourage city dwellers to take up EVs as their means of transport. This is the first time that the government has set a date for the transition to EVs in the country’s capital, which has been facing unprecedented levels of pollution in the last few years. Around 60 per cent of pollution in Kathmandu can be attributed to vehicular traffic. The adoption of EVs has also been linkedÂ with efforts to cut down on a burgeoning trade deficit with India, from where Nepal imports petroleum worth millions of dollars.   Published on June 1st, Friday, 2018 8:45 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 1 Nepal joined the 12 leading ODI nations on the expanded ICC ODI team ranking, effective from Friday. Besides Nepal, Scotland, Netherlands and the United Arab Emirates have also joined the 12 leading ODI nations. Nepal earned the ODI status as the three leading associates in the ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier 2018. The countries will play against other sides on the table and will count towards a team’s rating points and performance in the ranking table. Scotland was ranked in 13th place on 28 points – 10 points behind 12th ranked Ireland – while the UAE was another 10 points behind on 18 in 14th position. The Netherlands have 13 rating points and Nepal have 0 rating point, but they will reflect on the ICC ODI team rankings table after both have played four more ODIs. The teams earn points from each match they play against oppositions with an ODI rating. Matches played between May 1, 2015 and April 30, 2017 will be weighted at 50 per cent, whereas matches played after  May 1, 2017 will be weighted at 100 per cent. Published on June 1st, Friday, 2018 2:25 PM 
 Kathmandu, June 1 At least 12 persons were killed and 15 others were injured when a passenger bus met with an accident in Palpa district on Friday morning. The vehicle (Lu 1 Kha 975) was heading towards Rampur from Tansen in the district when it fell some 200 metres down the road in Rambha Rural Municipality-4 of the district. According to the District Police Office Chief Dilli Raj Pant, three women and nine men were killed in the incident. They, however, are yet to be identified. All the injured were rescued and have been receiving treatment to a local hospital in Palpa. Police are yet to find the cause of the incident.   Published on June 1st, Friday, 2018 1:03 PM 
An Indus river dolphin spotted in Dhunda [image courtesy: WWF-India]The first-ever survey of the Indus river dolphin population in India has revealed that there are five to 11 of the endangered animals living in a small stretch of the Beas river in Punjab. This is the only population found in India. Despite the tiny population, there is some good news. Researchers found a calf during a survey, which shows that the population is breeding. The presence of a young calf indicates a population that is large enough to be viable. The analysis has also shown that although the population of the species is small, its continuing presence in the Beas river above the Harike barrage for 70 years indicates that there is no decline in the number of the species on the studied stretch. A dolphin near the village of Mundapind [image courtesy: WWF-India]The Indus River Dolphin Survey was conducted by WWF-India, in partnership with the Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab, on May 3-6. This is the first organised survey done across a 185 kilometre stretch of the river, in a part designated as the Beas Conservation Reserve. “While people still talk about Gangetic river dolphins, no one talks about the Indus river dolphins, neither at the state level nor at the national level. So this survey has helped us gain perspective. It was a concerted effort to understand the status of the population in India and the findings will help us in formulating a conservation strategy to save the species,” said Suresh Babu, the director of river basins and water policy at WWF-India. The dolphin survey started from 52 Headworks, Talwara and ended at Harike Nooze point; 55 kilometres of river downstream of 52 Headworks was surveyed by road due to insufficient water in the Beas while the remaining 130 kilometres was surveyed using motorboats. Direct counts were conducted using the tandem boat survey method: using two boats and a team of eight observers and two data recorders. The survey was conducted both on foot and by boat [image courtesy: WWF-India]During the survey, the first dolphin sighting included an adult female with a week-old calf and a sub-adult. The second dolphin sighting occurred eight kilometres downstream from the first and again included an adult female with a week-old calf and a sub-adult, indicating breeding populations in the river. Based on the direct counts, the final estimate of the population of Indus River Dolphins in the Indian stretch of the Beas river is said to range between five and 11. The Indus river dolphin (Platanista gangetica minor) is a subspecies of freshwater river dolphin and is found only in the Indus river in India and Pakistan. It is listed as an endangered animal by the IUCN and is estimated to have a population of less than 2,000 individuals in Pakistan. The other subspecies of the freshwater river dolphin is the Gangetic river dolphin found in the Ganga river basin. Like the Gangetic river dolphin, the Indus river dolphin is blind, navigating and catching its prey through echolocation. Indus river dolphins were once common across all the major tributaries of the river but are now restricted to only the upper stretch of the Beas in India. It is believed that across India and Pakistan, the range of the elusive mammal has shrunk to just one-fifth of its original range. Numerous dams, weirs and barrages that have sprung up along the Indus and its tributaries have led to fragmentation of the rivers and the habitat of the dolphins, restricting them to small pockets. These structures have stopped the dolphins from moving between India and Pakistan, and there is the real danger that the tiny population in India will be affected by inbreeding. “Fragmentation of rivers is a major threat and it has affected their migratory paths. The diversion of river water has compromised their existence,” said Babu. Fishing is also a major threat as the dolphins often get entangled in the nets. Sand mining and loss of prey base are among other threats the dolphins face. The Department of Forests and Wildlife Preservation, Punjab and WWF-India will now be preparing an Indus River Dolphin strategy with an implementation roadmap to secure the habitats and conserve the endangered species. They will also study the downstream stretches of the river after monsoon to understand if the species is able to migrate downstream. This story was first published on thethirdpole.net Published on June 1st, Friday, 2018 10:45 AM 
Surkhet, May 31 Karnali Chief Minister Mahendra Bahadur Shahi has called on European Union representatives to focus on development works based on Karnali’s necessities. Minister Shahi made the remark during a meeting with a delegation led by EU Ambassador to Nepal, Veronica Cody. Stating that nongovernmental organisations were making Karnali dependent externally through small scale support, Minister Shahi said, “We will accommodate national and international NGOs that make a minimum investment of Rs 10 million that result in sustainable outcome.” He extended his gratitude to the EU delegation for working for providing nutrition to women and children of the remote Karnali Province. The Chief Minister was of the opinion that the NGOs increased the external dependence of the Karnali residents by distributing rice grains, noodles and biscuits. Shahi added that the Karnali government was preparing for a longterm development of the Province and looking to hold an international investment summit to attract investors in near future. On the occasion, Ambassador Cody said the EU was cooperating with Nepal on multisector nutrition plan. Cody added that EU would soon start the second phase of the programme. Ambassador Cody and UNICEF Nepal Country Representative Tomoo Hozumi along with the delegation members pledged to work with Karnali’s provincial government as a development partner. RSS Published on May 31st, Thursday, 2018 2:35 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 31 Unions of civil servants affiliated to various political parties have objected to the government decision to keep only one trade union of civil servants as the official one. The government has proposed scrapping the registration of other trade unions except the official one in the draft of Federal Civil Service Act. The bill will be tabled in Parliament for a discussion shortly. The first draft of bill has been sent to the Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs by the Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration recently. But, existing unions have urged the government to correct the proposal at the earliest. They have warned of launching a protest if their demand was not met. The trade unionists have commented that the government is trying to introduce a partyless system again in the age of republicanism.   Published on May 31st, Thursday, 2018 2:17 PM 
Kathmandu, May 31 Nepal government has assured that it is committed to host the next summit of Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) at the earliest. Nepal is due to hold the fourth summit of regional body comprising Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Thailand. Earlier, the summit was scheduled for 2017, but was postponed later. Receiving BIMSTEC Secretary General M Shahidul Islam at his official residence in Baluwatar of Kathmandu today, Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli said Nepal, as the current chair, was for formulating immediate, midterm and longterm plans for BIMSTEC. He also added that regional organisations should support development and prosperity of member states. “We should move fast towards economic and social development,” the PM reportedly told his guest, “I hope BIMSTEC is committed to the process.” Published on May 31st, Thursday, 2018 1:00 PM 
Butwal, May 30 The Province 5 Assembly has finalised the salary and benefits of officials of local bodies including chiefs and deputy chiefs of municipalities and rural municipalities. The legislative body on Wednesday endorsed the bill on perks and payments of officials of district coordination committees, municipalities and rural municipalities and ward committees. According to the bill, the District Coordination Committee will get a monthly salary of Rs 41,000 whereas the deputy and members will get Rs 36,000 and Rs 16,000 respectively. Chiefs, deputy chiefs and members of sub-metropolitan cities, municipalities and rural municipalities will get salaries and benefits at different scales. As per the law, officials will get allowance during meetings and travels. Published on May 30th, Wednesday, 2018 4:09 PM 
Pokhara, May 30 A high altitude marathon is being held from the Annapurna Base Camp to Ghandruk of Kaski district on coming Sunday, June 3. The Annapurna Circuit Trekking Route is popular as one of the 10 amazing and best trekking routes in the world. Total 58 people including national athletes and foreigners will attend the event to be held on the occasion of the ‘Annapurna Day’. According to Annapurna Century Tourism Festival main organising committee coordinator Lalit Gurung, participants of the event have already left for the Annapurna Base Camp. The marathon that will begin at 6:30 am on June 3 from an altitude of 4,100 metres will conclude at an altitude of 1,690 metres at Ghandruk. The distance of the marathon is 42.195 kilometres and its route includes Machhapuchhre Base Camp, Deurali, Himalaya, Dobhan, Wambo, Sinuwa, Chhomrong, Ghurjung, Tadapani and Bhaisi Kharka, according to festival publicity committee coordinator Tanka Raj Adhikari. The winner of the event will get Rs 100,000 while the second and third prizes carry a purse of Rs 70,000 and Rs 50,000, respectively. Those securing the positions within the top ten will be awarded the consolation prizes. RSS   Published on May 30th, Wednesday, 2018 3:36 PM 
Kathmandu, May 30 With an objective of finding ways and means to narrow down trade imbalance and enhance bilateral trade, officials of Nepal and Bangladesh are holding an intensive parley in Kathmandu. Nepal prioritises early resumption of smooth export of acrylic yarn to Bangladesh that had been barred since 2002 in the fourth Nepal-Bangladesh Commerce Secretary-level meeting that kicked off today. Total 18 agendas have been set for the meeting. The two sides will dwell upon agreement of regular operation of Dhaka-Kathmandu bus service, removal of high tariff and non-tariff barriers (NTBs) and simplification of administrative procedures on primary and manufactured goods, among others. At the meeting, the leader of Nepali delegation and Secretary at the Ministry of Commerce and Supplies Chandra Kumar Ghimire, referring to the vision of Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s ‘Prosperous Nepal, Happy Nepali’ campaign said Nepal had embarked on the path of rapid economic growth. He urged the Bangladeshi authorities to consider unhindered access of Nepali products like tea, coffee, large cardamoms, ginger, herbal products, broom, fresh vegetables, apples, oranges, yarn, lentils, cutch, vegetable seed, pashmina, handicraft, among others to Bangladeshi market. Top officials from the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies; Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs; Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation; Ministry of Foreign Affairs; Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation; Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport are members of the Nepali delegation. The 11-member Bangladeshi delegation is led by Shubhashish Bose, Secretary at the Ministry of Commerce. RSS Published on May 30th, Wednesday, 2018 3:17 PM 
Kathmandu, May 30 The main opposition Nepali Congress has called a meeting of its Parliamentary Party to discuss the annual budget statement for next fiscal year 2018/19 that the government tabled in Parliament on Tuesday. The meeting will take place at 11 am at the Parliamentary Party office in Singhadarbar, according to the party’s Chief Whip Bal Krishna Khand. Whereas the budget announcement has drawn mixed responses from various political parties and stakeholders of multiple sectors, the main opposition has called the meeting to decide the party’s official response on the issue. Earlier, the party had silently supported the government’s annual policy and programme though some leaders had criticised the policy documents. Khand also informs the meeting will also discuss other contemporary political issues. Published on May 30th, Wednesday, 2018 9:50 AM 
 Surkhet, May 29 Sita Air, a private airlines company, will soon operate flights from Surket to various districts of Karnali province including Jumla, Humla, Mugu, and Dolpa. The airlines says it is committed to begin air service from mid-June. Under-secretary at the Ministry of Tourism, Forest and Environment, Besinda Raj Subedi, and the Chief Executive Officer of Sita Air, Ghanashyam Acharya, signed a commitment paper at the Office of the Chief Minister today. Locals of Nepalgunj will be benefited by the flights. Earlier, locals of Karnali province had to come to Nepalgunj to go to Surkhet. “The direct flight to Surkhet will be a lot cheaper,” said Acharya. Published on May 29th, Tuesday, 2018 5:03 PM 
Dadeldhura, May 29 Four people have died and seven others sustained injuries when a jeep fell off the road in Dadeldhura this morning. The jeep (Se 1 Ja 330) was heading towards Kohalpur from Dipayal veered off the road killing three persons on the spot. The deceased are ward chair of Adarsha Rural Municipality-2, Prem Bahadur Bohara; Binod Rawal of Dipayal-Silgadhi Municipality-4; and Lal Bahadur Bohara and Janaki Bohara of Adarsha Rural Municipality-2 in Doti, informed DSP Chakra Raj Joshi. Eleven passengers were on board. Of the injured, three have been referred to Dhangadi hospital whereas the remaining four are receiving at Dadeldhura-based Sub-regional hospital. Published on May 29th, Tuesday, 2018 4:02 PM 
Kathmandu, May 29 Indian Minister for Foreign Affairs Sushma Swaraj has apologised for calling people of Janakpur who came to Barha Bigha to listen to Prime Minister Modi’s speech recently as ‘Indians’. “This was a mistake on my part. I sincerely apologise for this,” tweeted Swaraj with a video clip of her address on Twitter.   This was a mistake on my part. I sincerely apologise for this. pic.twitter.com/S1CpLv8uu0 — Sushma Swaraj (@SushmaSwaraj) May 28, 2018   Swaraj had termed the people of Janakpur as ‘Indians’ while speaking at a press conference organised at the Indian Foreign Ministry Office on Monday. “No Indian Prime Minister has ever been able to connect to the Indian nations in such wide range. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been able to directly connect with millions and millions of Indians residing.. from Madison of the United States to Janakpur,” Swaraj had said in the address. The Indian Foreign Minister, however, did not speak about the relation with Nepal, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s India visit and the visit of Modi to Nepal. The Indian Prime Minister, during his recent visit to Nepal, had received a civic-felicitation from Nepalis of Province 2 amid a programme in Janakpur of Dhanusha district. Published on May 29th, Tuesday, 2018 12:47 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 29 Bibeksheel Sajha Party has condemned the government’s decision to release the then CPN-Maoist leader and murder-convict Bal Krishna Dhungel. The government recently granted a Presidential pardon to Dhungel and released him for ‘good conduct’ on the occasion of Republic Day this morning. The party says the decision is against the law and it ridicules the country’s judicial system. “The decision has hurt the sentiment of war-era victims.” The party has also warned the government to provide compensation to the victims and survivors of the conflict and resolve the issues at the earliest. Dhungel had been serving his jail term at the Dillibazaar-based Central Prison for his involvement in the murder of Ujjan Kumar Shrestha of Okhaldhunga. He was sentenced to 20-year jail term for the crime but was released after serving around 40 per cent of his sentence. The President’s Office approved the government’s recommendation to release 817 jail inmates including Dhungel on the occasion of Republic Day. Published on May 29th, Tuesday, 2018 12:38 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 29 The nation is observing its 11th Republic Day organising various programmes on Tuesday. A formal programme has been organised at Tundikhel to commemorate the milestone that was achieved in the countryâ€™s history a decade ago. President Bidya Devi Bhandari, Vice-President Nanda Bahadur Pun, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, ministers, high level government officials and chiefs of the security bodies among others will be attending the function at Tundikhel today. Meanwhile, various organisations and student unions organised different cultural programmes and rallies to mark the day.   Published on May 29th, Tuesday, 2018 12:07 PM 
Kathmandu, May 28 Leaders of communist parties in various parts of the world are gathering in Kathmandu later this week to mark the 200th birth anniversary of philosopher Karl Marx. Nepal Communist Party and CPN-Mashal are organising a two-day programme on Wednesday and Thursday. Parties of as many as 12 countries will be participating in the international summit. Organising a press conference in the Capital today, NCP senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal informed that leaders of China, Vietnam, North Korea, Laos, Australia, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, South Africa, Russia, Japan and India will participate in the event. Prime Minister and NCP Chairman KP Sharma Oli will inaugurate the summit. He will also present a paper on protests and process of revolution for communism in Nepal. Likewise, the party’s another Chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal will present another paper on Marxism and socialism. Former Prime Minister Nepal also said that the summit would help spread the message of unity in the world. Published on May 28th, Monday, 2018 3:23 PM 
Kathmandu, May 28 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa has warned the criminals to start counting their days as the government is committed to uprooting criminal activities. Speaking at an event organised in Chandragiri of Kathmandu today, Minister Thapa said that anarchy, impunity, corruption, smuggling, and ruffianism were poisons for the society and the countdown of people involved in such criminal activities had begun. Stating that the country would not head towards development unless the irregularities prevailing in various sectors were ended, the Home Minister further said he was committed to taking strict action against the criminals. “It is a high time we made economic and cultural revolution in the country. The government is committed to ending syndicates prevailing in every sector,” Thapa repeated. “The contractors dillydallying the projects and failing to complete the work on scheduled time will be punished,” he added. Published on May 28th, Monday, 2018 3:00 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 28 The government has sealed two petrol pumps of Lalitpur during a market monitoring held on Monday morning after they were found cheating customers. A market monitoring team, coordinated by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Supplies, sealed Ekantakuna-based Prashanti Oil Store and Satdobato-based Mahalaxmi Biswokarma Trader’s after it was proved that they were deceiving the customers. According to Under Secretary at the Ministry, Santosh Bista, Prashanti Oil distributed 30 ml less petroleum in each 10 litres whereas Mahalaxmi Bishwakarma Traders distributed 10 ml less quantity in every 10 litres. As per the law, if the quantity is less than 25 percent of the set amount, no action will be taken. “However, the petrol pumps had exceeded 25 per cent. Hence, we had to seal it,” he added. A monitoring team from Nepal Bureau of Standards and Metrology and technicians from Nepal Oil Corporation had monitored five petrol pumps in the district after complaints were filed against them. Published on May 28th, Monday, 2018 1:06 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 27 Each Nepali carries a debt burden of around Rs 29,000, the government’s economic survey data says. The national economic survey presented in Parliament on Sunday showed that the amount increased by Rs 4,000 and reached Rs 29,000 in the current fiscal year. Minister for Finance Yubaraj Khatiwada presented the survey data before lawmakers this afternoon. The amount was Rs 24,270 last year and has increased by Rs 4,694 this year. The amount is 19.3 per cent more than the last fiscal year. It has been learnt that the amount surged due to increase in mobilisation of internal debt. In the first eight months of current fiscal year, the debt amount reached Rs 843 billion. The ratio between the domestic debt and foreign debt has reached 46.1:53.9. Published on May 27th, Sunday, 2018 8:29 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 27 A meeting of Parliament passed the government’s annual policy and programmes on Sunday. The annual policy and programmes was passed after Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli addressed various issues raised by MPs during a discussion in the House recently. Though the Nepali Congress and the Rastriya Janata Party Nepal did not revoke their proposal to amend the annual policy and programmes, the parties did not vote against it either. Nepali Congress leader Dr Minendra Rijal and RJPN lawmaker Anil Kumar Jha refused to withdraw their amendment to the annual policy and programme. Federal Socialist Forum Nepal leaders, however, withdrew their amendment proposal. Published on May 27th, Sunday, 2018 4:58 PM 
Biratnagar, May 27 Morang District Court has completed recording the statement of Chundamani Upreti alias Gore, the alleged mastermind in the 33.5 kg gold smuggling case. Clerks of the court, who started recording his statement on Wednesday, have prepared a 37-page-long document to present before the court.Â The court will now conduct a hearing to decide if Upreti is to be released on bail or remanded in judicial custody. While recording the statement, police also showed the court a video footage of Upreti torturing his gold-carrier Sanam Shakya, who was found dead a few months ago. Cases have been filed against Gore under organised crime, kidnapping and holding hostage, murder, and gold smuggling. Also read: Explainer: What is the gold smuggling case all about? Published on May 27th, Sunday, 2018 4:49 PM 
Dhangadhi, May 27 A 37-year-old man has been shot at and robbed of Rs 900,000 at around 10:00 am in Dhangadhi Sub-Metropolitan City-1 in Kailali district this morning. Nirmal Karki was on his way to deposit the amount in a bank when the incident occurred. “Two persons came on a motorcycle, shot him, and fled the scene snatching the bag he was carrying,” said witnesses present at the scene. Karki sustained two bullet injuries on the chest and arm. He is being treated at the Seti Zonal Hospital. Police have sealed areas that share the border with India and are searching for the culprits, informed SP Binod Ghimire at the Kailali District Police Office. Meanwhile, police have arrested two suspects from Geta in Kailali. Further investigation is underway.     Published on May 27th, Sunday, 2018 12:15 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 27 As many as 82,235 Nepalis looking for work in South Korea will sit for the Korean language proficiency test this year. The exam is scheduled for July 10-11. “Around 60,000 examinees will take the exam in Kathmandu and remaining will take the test in Pokhara,” informed Shobhakar Bhandari, spokesperson for the Employment Permit System (EPS), Korea section. Sixteen examination centres have been chosen in Kathmandu, eight in Lalitpur, and four in Pokhara. The South Korean government says it will recruit around 7,100 Nepalis this year. “South Korea will check the exam papers using OCR technology. Hence, the results will not take time,” added Bhandari. Every year, thousands of Nepalis take the Korean language test to register themselves with the EPS and lang a job in South Korea. Published on May 27th, Sunday, 2018 11:37 AM 
Kathmandu, May 25 The Supreme Court has issued a show cause notice to the government on the government’s plan to waive the jail term for murder- convict Maoist leader Bal Krishna Dhungel. A single bench of Justice Deepak Kumar Karki ordered the government to submit in writing within 24 hours why it wants to waive the of punishment handed over to murder-convict Dhungel. The bench was responding to a petition filed by Senior Advocate Dinesh Tripathi against the government’s decision to release Dhungel ahead of time. According to spokesperson Bhadrakali Pokharel, the apex court has summoned the parties involved in the case for a hearing on May 23. The government is learnt to be been preparing to release Dhungel on the occasion of Republic Day on May 29. According to the law, if a prisoner shows good conduct then s/he can get a waiver of up to 60 per cent of the jail sentence. Dhungel was sentenced to 20 years in jail for the for the murder Ujjain Kumar Shrestha, a resident of Okhaldhunga, in 1988. Published on May 25th, Friday, 2018 4:44 PM 
Sydney, May 25 A Nepali national has been convicted in a murder case in Australia. Hari Prasad Dhakal (51), who has been working as a chef at Ballarat Curry Restaurant in Victoria, was accused of stabbing one Abdullah Siddiqui on October 25, 2016, Sydney Morning Herald reported. Dhakal’s lawyer, Thio Alexzander, told the paper that the incident was not pre-planned and happened for self-defence. “On the incident night, Siddiqui had traied to attack Dhakal from behind and the incident happened when he used the weapon for self defence.” After the incident, Dhakal wrapped the knife with a cloth piece and reached a local police station to surrender. Dhakal had been going through too many frustrating situations. His application for visa renewal was also rejected by the government, added Alexzander. The prosecution, however, has accused Dhakal of killing Siddiqui after the latter had shouted at the chef using vulgar words in an intoxicate state. Dhakal too has said that the whole incident was not his fault and he had no intension of killing Siddiqui. He has been sentenced jail term from June 1 and will be sent to Nepal after completing the punishment.   Published on May 25th, Friday, 2018 2:45 PM 
Kathmandu, May 25 Non-Resident Nepali Shesh Ghale and his wife Jamuna Gurung have been ranked 81st in Australia’s Rich List 2018. In a data published by the Business Review Weekly on Thursday, Ghale secured the 81st position with the property of Australian $876 million. With this, he has reached even few inches closer to being enlisted as a billionaire. The former Non-Resident Nepalis Association Chair was ranked 101st with the valuables worth Australian $647 million in the data last year. Ghale’s property has increased by 35 per cent (Australian $230 million) this year.     Published on May 25th, Friday, 2018 11:24 AM 
Birgunj, May 25 Police have arrested a lawyer here for his alleged involvement in an rape attempt case involving his distant relative. Husband of lawmaker Sheikh Chand Tara, Shesh Mansur Babu, was arrested for rape attempt on his relative. The suspect was at large after a complaint of the incident was lodged at the Parsa District Police Office in January this year. According to SP Rewati Dhakal at the District Police Office, the victim had registered the complaint 20 days after the incident. “He has been arrested from Adalat Chok on Thursday and has been kept in custody for necessary investigation,” informed SP Dhakal.     Published on May 25th, Friday, 2018 10:50 AM 
Kathmandu, May 24 Nepal Communist Party Chairperson Pushpa Kamal Dahal says his party’s government is here to stay for the next five years. Speaking at a programme organised to commemorate the 12th establishment day of the Nepal National Industries and Commerce in Kathmandu on Thursday, Dahal said that it was the first time in history that the government was this strong. “The government in the Panchayat era also did not last more than three years. They had doubts that a strong government could ever be formed in the multiparty system. After the adoption of federalism in the country, the government changed every nine months. But that will not happen now. Nepalis will now see a government complete its full term in office,” claimed Dahal. Dahal said that his government was committed to ushering in prosperity int he country. “If political instability prevails, we have seen how the country’s economy could go haywire,” he added. “That is why our government has pledged to work towards prosperity.” Published on May 24th, Thursday, 2018 3:45 PM 
Chitwan, May 24 People living near the Narayangadh-Muglin road section that connects the Prithivi Highway with the East-west Highway have demanded that the government relocate them to a safer place and provide compensation as their livelihoods have been disturbed. This comes days after project said that temporary settlements along the highway will soon be cleared to facilitate the expansion of the strategically important road. Following the notice, the project has already partially paid 45 households to relocate. The project is to provide Rs 70,000- 1.4 million to each household forced to move out. Project officials have already distributed 30 per cent of the compensation amount as the first instalment. The locals, however, are disappointed. The residents on Sunday submitted a memorandum to the District Administration Office demanding that the government not only provide monetary compensation but also land for them to relocate to. Meanwhile, the project’s division engineer Govinda Khanal clarified that the government can’t provide land to the people. “We have already provided due compensation. We are here to construct the project, not to look for land to relocate these people.” Published on May 24th, Thursday, 2018 3:17 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 24 The government would soon launch a new mobile application to address complaints of the public about various government agencies and services. The Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers has started homework for the launch of ‘Nagarik Adhikar’ (Citizen Rights). At present, ‘Hello Sarkar’ is the only authorised government portal that has been registering complaints from public and forwarding them to the concerned authorities. However, the new app will directly link the general public to the concerned authority, informed an official at the OPMCM. “The new app is being prepared to ease the works of Hello Sarkar and make it more manageable. We believe this will be more effective,” he added. The budget for preparing the app will be allocated in the upcoming budget statement for the next fiscal year. Published on May 24th, Thursday, 2018 12:17 PM 
Kathmandu, May 23 The House of Representatives on Wednesday has begun discussions on the government’s annual policy and programme that President Bidya Devi Bhandari presented before a joint meeting of both houses of Federal Parliament on Monday. As the discussion began, opposition lawmakers criticised the policy citing it was impractical and ambitious. The main opposition Nepali Congress’ President Sher Bahadur Deuba himself spoke first. He commented that the policy tried to teach the people lessons about nationalism. Likewise, Congress lawmaker Minendra Rijal accused the government of bringing forward the plan for Madan Bhandari Highway so as to block the construction of Postal Highway. The ruling Nepal Communist Party’s General Secretary and lawmaker Bishnu Paudel defended the government and responded to Deuba and Rijal among others. He said the opposition’s protest was just for the sake of it and it did not have any substantial point. He told Deuba that the government was not trying to teach anyone any lesson, it just expressed its respect to people who loved their country. Paudel also maintained that the government was equally committed to the Postal Highway. Published on May 23rd, Wednesday, 2018 4:08 PM 
Butwal, May 23 Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari says the government is thinking of handing over the responsibility of managing and operating the Gautam Buddha International Airport in Bhairahawa of Rupandehi district to the private sector. The second international airport of the country is currently under construction near Lumbini, the birth place of Lord Buddha. The government wants to use it as an alternative to Kathmandu’s Tribhuvan International Airport. Minister Adhikari says the government will allow the private sector to take over the airport so as to promote healthy competition in the sector. Adhikari monitored construction works at the project site today. During the monitoring, the Minister also informed that the new airport would come into operation within next one year, and he would monitor the site every 15 days to make sure the achievement of target. He also suggested that the project add some other equipment to the assignment so that it would not miss the deadline. Published on May 23rd, Wednesday, 2018 2:50 PM 
Kathmandu, May 23 Preparations are underway to take ailing Rastrakabi Madhav Prasad Ghimire to Medanta Hospital of New Delhi for further treatment on Wednesday. The 99-year-old poet is undergoing treatment at Tokha-based Grande International Hospital in Kathmandu for last 12 days. Though he has experienced minor improvement in past few days, his internal bleeding has not stopped and the doctors have suggested that he be taken abroad. Therefore, he will be taken to the sophisticated health facility tonight, according to the family. Whereas Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has already assured that the government would cover all costs for his treatment, the Nepal Army is also assisting Ghimire. It has been learned that Ghimire will fly to the Indian capital from the Tribhuvan International Airport at around 5 pm today. He will be accompanied by a Nepal Army doctor. Perhaps the most revered living litterateur of the country, he is suffering from multiple health issues including related to heart, kidney and lung for last four months. Published on May 23rd, Wednesday, 2018 2:17 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 23 Short haul airlines in Nepal have been ranked the most expensive airlines on the basis of air fares in the world. According to a recent survey, Buddha Air and Yeti Airlines were titled the most expensive airlines. The report says that Yeti Airlines charged US $1.08 per kilometre whereas Buddha Air charged US $ 1.18 per kilometre. A Melbourne-based global travel search company, Reme2rio, conducted the survey on the basis of airlines’ price comparison on economy class airfares in January and February this year. The survey underlined the high cost of short haul flights with small aircraft and flying condition. Meanwhile, Australia’s Tigerair has been ranked the world’s cheapest followed by Jetstar. The average fare charged by Tigerair is US $ 0.06 per kilometre while Jetstar was US $ 0.09 per kilometre. Virgin Australia and Qantas charged US $ 0.11 per kilometre. Air Asia X, Indonesia AirAsia, Qatar Airways and Etihad have been ranked among the airlines with lowest air fares. Published on May 23rd, Wednesday, 2018 12:28 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 23 Along with the annual budget statement for next fiscal year (2018/19), the government is planning to table a Medium Term Expenditure Framework in the Federal Parliament this time. As per the constitutional provision, Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada is presenting to table the details of annual income and expenses before the House on May 29. Along with the budget, Khatiwada will also present the MTEF which includes priorities and constraints for the budget for next three years, according to the Ministry of Finance. Officials claim the MTEF connects annual budget to periodic planning and makes it more scientific. Likewise, it supposedly promotes transparency of expenses and accountability of public institutions, thereby maintaining financial discipline. The Nepal government had introduced the concept of MTEF in fiscal year 2002/03. The government prepared the MTEF every year till 2007/08. Then, it was introduced once again in 2012/13, but it was not continued. The new Intergovernmental Fiscal Arrangement Act has a provision that the government has to publish the MTEF every year. Published on May 23rd, Wednesday, 2018 10:35 AM 
 Kathmandu, May 22 The main opposition Nepali Congress has labelled the annual policy and programme for the coming fiscal year that the government presented yesterday as a bundle of hollow plans. In a meeting of the Parliamentary Party held on Tuesday, the party leaders also decided to raise their voice against the plan which was designed to ‘sell dreams’ using traditional approach and centralised system. The main opposition has also accused the incumbent government of preparing the annual policy and programme without a clear mapping for the development of local and provincial governments. The Congress leaders also commented that the policy and programmeslooked more like a manifesto and stated that they would raise their voices against it to secure the dream of common people for a prosperous and developed Nepal. The main opposition further stated that the policy document disrespected the National Assembly and the House of Representatives. Published on May 22nd, Tuesday, 2018 4:35 PM 
Kathmandu, May 22 Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal Chairman Upendra Yadav has said that his party is open to the option of joining the incumbent government despite the recent unification between CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre. The party, however, has taken a firm stand on a written agreement for the constitution amendment, according to him. Before the unification, the dissolved UML had stressed on bringing Rastriya Janata Party Nepal on board along with the Forum. But, the Maoist Center wanted only the Forum to join the government. A Forum leader stated that they were skeptical about the unification as UML was in hurry to merge the parties despite difficulty in the process. “We now expect the government to discuss the expansion like earlier,” he said. Earlier, the three political parties–UML, Maoist Centre and Forum–had agreed on the amendment. Yet again, the Nepal Communist Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal on Monday said that the consensus would be forged once the Madhesh-centric parties joined the government. Published on May 22nd, Tuesday, 2018 12:19 PM 
Kathmandu, May 22 Indian government says it has already decided to close the Indian Embassy’s camp office in Biragnagar of Morang district in Nepal. Whereas various political parties and groups had demanded that the office be closed, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli, while informing Parliament about Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Nepal, had announced last week that the office would be closed soon. But, the statement issued by the Indian Ministry of External Affairs today claims that the decision was already made before Oli shared the information to Parliament as Modi communicated the matter to his Nepali counterpart during the trip. “The purpose for which this Camp Office was opened has been fulfilled. GoI had already decided to wind up the Camp Office and re-locate the personnel,” reads the statement. India had established the office in Biratnagar for security check of Nepalis entering India after a flood in Saptakoshi in the monsoon of 2008 created a havoc in eastern Nepal. Published on May 22nd, Tuesday, 2018 12:05 PM 
Kathmandu, May 22 A team consisting of Chinese and Nepali technicians has begun the preliminary feasibility study for the development of a railway project connecting Kyirong of Tibet to Kathmandu. The team began its work on Monday and is expected to submit its report by August end. The technicians, who work for China Railway for Survey and Design Institute, surveyed various parts of the Kathmandu Valley on Monday before heading to the border with officials from Nepal’s Department of Railway. This comes two months after a  team led by Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport Secretary Madhu Sudan Adhikari visited China to ink an agreement to carry out the study. According to an official at the Railway Department, the first report will work as a road map to begin construction work. The report will also name possible stations for the railway line and list geographical difficulties that may arise during construction. Although experts are yet to decide on the location of the railway stations, Tokha is being considered as an entry point for Kathmandu, informed an official. The construction of the Kyirong-Kathmandu, Kathmandu-Pokhara, and Kathmandu-Lumbini railways was also mentioned in the annual policy and programmes unveiled by President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Monday. Published on May 22nd, Tuesday, 2018 11:13 AM 
Kathmandu, May 21 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli will be embarking on an official visit to China in mid-June. According to a high-level government official, the Prime Minister will visit the northern neighbour on June 19. The official announcement, however, is yet to be made. Prime Minister Oli wanted to visit China during the two-day Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Conference to be held on June 9. If that were possible, the Prime Minister would get an opportunity to meet Russian President Vladimir Putin. However, officials say the plan could not materialise due to undisclosed reasons. Hence, the Chinese government is preparing to welcome the Nepali Prime Minister on June 19. Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Gyawali has already visited China to prepare for the Prime Ministerâ€™s visit. Published on May 21st, Monday, 2018 3:26 PM 
Kathmandu, May 21 Lalitpur Metropolitan City has directed local school authorities to halt the construction of a building near the ‘historic’ Saptapatal pond in Lagankhel. Stating the even the Supreme Court has ordered the conservation of the pond, Mayor of Lalitpur Chiribabu Maharjan informed that the metropolis has directed Namuna Machchhindra Secondary School not to construct buildings near the pond. Experts have said that the water in the pond should be refilled as various stone taps and wells are connected to it and receive water from the pond. Locals claim that theÂ pond should be conserved as it was built during the Lichchhavi era. Published on May 21st, Monday, 2018 2:40 PM 
Kathmandu, May 21 Rastrakabi Madhav Ghimire has been admitted to the Tokha-based Grande International Hospital. According to the hospital, the health condition of the 99-year-old poet is stable now. He is being treated at the Intensive Care Unit of the hospital. According to doctors, Ghimire suffers from heart, kidney and lung ailments. Doctors have also reported internal bleeding. “Four pints of blood have already been given but the internal bleeding has not stopped,” informed Ghimire’s son Rajiv. Ghimire has been unwell for the past few months. This is the seventh time he has been admitted to the hospital. Doctors have suggested that an endoscopy be carried out. However, due to lack of experts, the hospital is trying to bring doctors from India to look into the case. “We are also looking at the possibility of taking him to Delhi for further treatment,” informed Rajiv. Published on May 21st, Monday, 2018 1:16 PM 
Kathmandu, May 20 The federal government is planning to allocate a sum of money from its annual budget to each of 753 local governments in the country so as to provide various skill development training programmes to the people living in towns and rural areas. The special plan is being proposed with an aim to stop unskilled youth from flying abroad for job opportunities. The Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Security had recently announced that it would gradually stop unskilled human resources from joining the abroad workforce as they have been facing lots of troubles and humiliation there. Therefore, a special plan will be implemented in all municipalities and rural municipalities in the upcoming fiscal year and the budget will also be allocated for the programme. According to a high-level official at the Ministry, a special policy and programme for the skill development campaign will be brought in the upcoming fiscal year and homework has already been started.   Published on May 20th, Sunday, 2018 3:43 PM 
Rasuwa, May 20 Rasuwagadhi, one of the most accessible border points with Tibet of China, has become as much as 25 kilometres closer to Kathmandu as the Nepal Army constructed a 17-kilometre roadway from Mailung to Syabrubesi in Rasuwa district. Minister for Defence Ishwar Pokharel and Minister for Infrastructure Development and Transport Raghubir Mahaseth inaugurated the newly constructed road at a function organised on Sunday. Travellers now can go to Rasuwagadhi without fearing the traffic and landslides in Ramche of the district. The construction of the two-lane road began in 2016 and will soon be handed over to the Department of Roads. In the beginning, the Nepal Army got the responsibility to construct a single-lane seven-kilometre road. But, after the 2015 earthquake, the government decided that another 10-kilometre two-way track would also be constructed. More than Rs 70 million has been spent in the construction of the road. The army officials, however, have warned that travelling through the road during rainy season might be risky.   Published on May 20th, Sunday, 2018 2:50 PM 
Kathmandu, May 20 Nepal Electricity Authority Managing Director Kul Man Ghising says contractors who fail to complete their transmission line assignments on time should pay a penalty to the Authority for the unforeseen delay incurs a huge loss to the government-owned utility. When contractors responsible to construct transmission lines fail to do their job on time, electricity produced from hydropower projects cannot be used properly; and the Authority has to pay a penalty to project promoters in this case. Now onwards, the Authority will make the contractors pay the penalty to the Authority and it will be given to the promoters in turn, according to Ghising. Ghising apparently made the decision after the contractors hired for Solu Corridor transmission line are unlikely to meet the deadline. According to the power purchase agreement, the government has to pay 45 per cent of production as penalty to the promoters upon failure to take the power to the national grid through the transmission lines. Meanwhile, a Ghising-led team on Friday monitored under-construction substations and transmission lines of the project in Tingla of Solukhumbu district. Published on May 20th, Sunday, 2018 2:40 PM 
Kathmandu, May 20 Two-way vehicular movement has resumed along the Narayangadh-Muglin road in Chitwan district from Sunday morning. The road section was halted after a landslide at Kalikhola of Ichhakamana Rural Municipality district at around 5:30 am today. According to Muglin Traffic Police Office, the traffic resumed after removal of debris in the area. The traffic was halted for two hours. Earlier last week too, another landslide around the same place had obstructed the road. The road connecting Kathmandu and Pokhara with the East-West Highway is blocked for traffic for six hours every day, from 10 am to 4 pm, as road upgrading and expansion works are underway for last few years. Therefore, the traffic pressure on the road is quite heavy in mornings and evenings.   Published on May 20th, Sunday, 2018 11:13 AM 
Kathmandu, May 20 One of two chairmen of newly unified Nepal Communist Party, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, is busy in meetings with leaders of dissolved CPN-Maoist Centre that he had led before it merged with the CPN-UML, so as to select central members for the new party. The UML and the Maoist Centre had agreed to form a 441-member Central Committee including 241 UML leaders and remaining 200 from the Maoist Centre. Earlier, the UML had 200 central members. Therefore, the UML side of new party also needs to 41 more leaders to the list for new party. A source says the list has already been finalised. But, the Maoist side is yet to finalise the list of leaders to be in the central committee as then CPN-Maoist Centre had more than 4,000 ‘central committee’ members. Dahal had held discussions with two other leaders, Narayan Kaji Shrestha and Ram Bahadur Thapa, yesterday for around five hours. The meeting has shortlisted around 235 leaders and they will sit together today again to finalise the list. After selecting, 200 central committee members, the leaders will select 18 top leaders to send to the standing committee. Published on May 20th, Sunday, 2018 11:08 AM 
Kathmandu, May 18 The Director General of Department of Transport Management, Rup Narayan Bhattarai, who reportedly played a pivotal role in ending the transport syndicates recently, has been pulled back to the Ministry of Physical Infrastructure and Transport. Minister for Physical Infrastructure and Transport Raghubir Mahaseth on Wednesday decided to pull back Bhattarai to the Ministry. A letter signed by Joint Secretary Dhruba Joshi has been sent to Bhattarai after the Secretary refrained from signing the transfer letter. At the time when Minister Mahaseth was hesitant about ending the syndicates, Bhattarai had actively contributed and supported Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa in ending the monopoly of transport entrepreneurs. It has been learnt that the Minister had made a secret agreement with the transport entrepreneurs’ committees to protect their bank account from freezing. Though the syndicate system has ended, various works related to fully ending the monopoly are yet to be carried out.   Published on May 18th, Friday, 2018 4:07 PM 
Biratnagar, May 18 Security personnel here have arrested another suspect of a bomb attack at the Field Office of Indian Embassy in Biratnagar-13 of Morang district. Sagar Rai alias Suresh Kumar Rai (63) of Buddhiganga Rural Municipality in Morang was arrested in connection with the incident, said Morang District Police Office. He was arrested in front of a leather industry in Biratnagar-15. Rai was presented before the District Court Morang on Thursday. Police had arrested two suspects earlier for the bombing that took place on April 17. The exterior wall of the Office was damaged in the incident. RSS   Published on May 18th, Friday, 2018 1:48 PM 
Nepalgunj, May 18 Nepali Congress spokesperson Bishwa Prakash Sharma says the party does not believe that opposition parties have to resort to agitation and strikes. As the two ruling parties recently merged into one, Sharma clarified that his party would continue to be a ‘good opposition’ despite the challenge it faced with the unification. He argued that the unification between the two large communist forces would strengthen democracy, and that his party viewed the unification in the same light. “It is wrong to think that Nepali Congress lost just one election. Now, the Congress will commit itself to building its organisation after reviewing its defeat,” he added. Speaking at a press meet organised in Banke on Friday morning, Sharma said, “The opposition party must play creative and constructive roles. Throwing stones and holding strikes are not the mark of a character of a good opposition; Nepali Congress is a good opposition party.” Stating that NC would review the works after the incumbent government reaches its hundred days in office, he said that his party would raise alertness over weak and wrong steps and not stint in extending support on good works. RSS Published on May 18th, Friday, 2018 12:16 PM 
 Ministry of Federal Affairs and General AdministrationKathmandu, May 18 Though the government has reduced the number of ministries and merged them into few ones as it began implementing the new federal system under the 2015 constitution, it is yet to restructure various departments that have been working under different ministries. Even after decentralisation of power and delegation of rights from central to local and provincial governments, the number of departments has not decreased. Earlier, a committee formed to suggest changes in the bureaucratic structure had concluded that the number of departments and offices for the central government should be reduced. However, the government is yet to implement them. As many as 53 departments and organisations under the federal government will remain intact in the new system too. Of them, 34 departments have already been approved whereas the structure of remaining 19 organsiations will be presented in the Cabinet meeting soon. There are currently 21 ministries at the centre. Experts view that even 21 ministries are more than necessary. “Those ministries that have been handed over to the local and provincial governments should be scrapped at the central level and remaining should be merged,” they suggest. “Tasks of departments including those responsible for drinking water, tourism, forest, agriculture, among others have already been handed over to the local level. Such departments should be scrapped, and departments working in similar field should be merged,” they claim. Published on May 18th, Friday, 2018 11:50 AM 
Biratnagar, May 17 Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal Chairperson Upendra Yadav says the federal government is putting the newly introduced system of federalism in jeopardy as it did not give sufficient rights to provincial and local governments. He says the government is imposing the centre’s rule on provincial and local governments instead of delegating constitutional rights. “Federalism has to take rights of Singhadarbar [the central government] to each and every village,” Yadav said at a press conference in Biratnagar of Morang today, “It does not mean transporting Singhadarbar’s rights to Baluwatar [PM’s residence].” Yadav was of the view that rights given to the provincial governments currently were as few as those give to the District Panchayat during the partyless Panchayat system before 1990. Published on May 17th, Thursday, 2018 2:49 PM 
Kathmandu, May 17 A joint meeting of the CPN-UML and the CPN-Maoist Centre comprising top leaders of both parties has endorsed the draft statute of the party that they want to form after the merger. The two parties are all set to announce the unification amidst a press meet in Kathmandu later this afternoon. Few hours before the announcement, top leaders of the ruling parties gathered at the Prime Minister’s official residence in Baluwatar for the Party Unification Coordination Committee meeting and endorsed the statute prepared by a joint task force. Meanwhile, both the parties are scheduled to organise their central committee meetings separately today to decide their dissolution. Following that, the two parties will hold a joint meeting to formalise the establishment of new party. The announcement will be made public after the meeting. They will also apply for the registration of new party at the Election Commission today itself. Published on May 17th, Thursday, 2018 2:17 PM 
Kathmandu, May 17 After its success in dissolving transport entrepreneurs’ syndicates, it seems, the government is now preparing to launch another crackdown on similar practices in foreign employment recruitment sector. Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security Gokarna Bista claims that he has already told the Ministry of Home Affairs to launch an investigation and take action against organisations which have been carrying out various activities to pocket undue commissions from workers in the sector. A source claims that the Home Ministry is currently preparing to respond to Bista’s request in action. The government may file organised crime and fraud cases against people and organisations fleecing foreign employment aspirants, according to the source. Minister Bista organised a press conference in Kathmandu to claim that the government would not let businesses collect additional charges from foreign employment aspirants other than those fixed by the government and those mentioned in employment contracts. “The system in which thousands of Nepalis get cheated in the interest of a handful of people will not last long,” Bista said, “The government will scrap all illegal activities.” Published on May 17th, Thursday, 2018 2:02 PM 
Kathmandu, May 17 Prime Minister and CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli says the main opposition Nepali Congress will soon lose its position as a competitor of his party as the UML is unifying with the CPN-Maoist Centre. The two communist parties are preparing to announce the merger in Kathmandu this afternoon. Just hours before the announcement, Oli says the Congress now cannot compete with the unified party and it will be forced to support to the left force. Speaking at a function organised by both the parties on the occasion of death anniversary of communist leader Madan Bhandari, Oli said he, however, would take the Congress also into confidence and it would be asked to contribute to the holistic development of the country. The leader was of the view that the announcement of unification would have immediate and longterm impacts on the country. Speaking at the function, Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal said the unification of two parties would be a true tribute to Bhandari, who redefined Nepal’s communist movement. Published on May 17th, Thursday, 2018 10:30 AM 
Nepali wrist spinner Sandeep Lamichhane has been added to the ICC World XI squad for the T20I against the West Indies to be played on 31 May. The match will be played at Lord’s and all the proceeds will be used to redevelop the stadia in the Caribbean, which were damaged due to hurricanes last year. Lamichhane,will join a star-studded line-up, which also comprises Eoin Morgan (captain), Shahid Afridi, Tamim Iqbal, Dinesh Karthik, Rashid Khan, Mitchell McClenaghan, Shoaib Malik, Hardik Pandya, Thisara Perera and Luke Ronchi against the ICC World Twenty20 champion side, which includes the likes of Samuel Badree, Carlos Brathwaite, Chris Gayle, Evin Lewis, Marlon Samuels and Andre Russell among others. Lamichhane was picked in the ICC XI after impressing in the World Cup Qualifiers, according to the world cricket governing body. He was in the team which played the historic match at Lord’s in July 2016, where he had figures of one for 25 as Nepal successfully defended 217 for eight, bowling out the hosts for 176 in 47.2 overs. Reacting to the news of his inclusion in the ICC World XI, Lamichhane told ICC, “It is an honour for the entire country and passionate followers of Nepal cricket, as well as an indicator that we are making our mark on the international game.” “Training, sharing the dressing room and playing with some of the trend-setters who we saw on television while growing up is something I look forward to. This is an opportunity for me to learn and improve, and I am committed to cashing in on this.” Published on May 16th, Wednesday, 2018 3:55 PM 
Kathmandu, May 6 The main opposition party Nepali Congress has warned of obstructing House procedures if the ruling parties fail to address its demand about the House of Representatives regulations. The party has been arguing that the regulations should not include any provision of suspending lawmakers; but the ruling parties including CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre have proposed suspending lawmakers whenever they face criminal charges. Following the warning, the regulations could not be presented in the House meeting today. It was supposed to be put to vote for a decision today. “Nobody can be suspended till the court convicts the accused. Why is the UML reiterating the same thing over and over? We are doubting their intention,” Congress lawmaker told the House of Representatives meeting today, “If the go for voting, we will show them the true colour of Nepali Congress as an opposition.” Published on May 16th, Wednesday, 2018 3:04 PM 
Kathmandu, May 16 CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli and his CPN-Maoist Centre counterpart Pushpa Kamal Dahal on Tuesday morning held a meeting, during which they reportedly shared complaints they had about each other and their parties. The meeting took place when speculations are rife that the gap between two parties is increasing thoughÂ they are preparing for an ambitious merger for last seven months and the unification process has been unofficially halted. During the meeting held at the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar this morning also, the two leaders complained of other party’s role in cooking up rumours and spreading them. Earlier, on Monday, UML senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal met Dahal and suggested that they express all grievances about the unification during the next meeting of Party Unification Coordination Committee. Accordingly, Oli and Dahal agreed to call the Committee’s meeting for Thursday. Meanwhile, the CPN-UML is holding the party’s Standing Committee meeting after this afternoon. During the meeting, Oli will brief party leaders about the progress made so far towards the unification.   Published on May 16th, Wednesday, 2018 12:18 PM 
Kathmandu, May 16 The Province 3 government has expressed its interest in proposed Kathmandu-Hetaunda road tunnel project that would connect the federal capital with the provincial capital after the ambitious plan could not materialise from the private sector. The Province’s Chief Minister Dor Mani Poudel says his government wants to take the plan ahead as a provincial pride project. He says the project will be on priority as the government will table its annual budget statement for next fiscal year, adding, “The project will be complete within my tenure.” Earlier, the federal government had assigned Nepal Purbadhar Bikas Company Limited for the construction. Though the initial deadline for completion was 2017 January, nothing has been done so far. An official at the Provincial Ministry of Physical Infrastructure says the government is planning to summon the company to discuss how it plans to move ahead with the project. “The assigned company should not get the project stuck. It has to pull out if it cannot so that the provincial government can begin its works,” the official says, “This project is very important for us.” Published on May 16th, Wednesday, 2018 11:41 AM 
Kathmandu, May 16 Two members of the cabin crew on a Makalu Air aeroplane on its way to Simikot of Humla district in Karnali Province of western Nepal have been killed as the aircraft crashed before it reached the destination. Tribhuvan International Airport General Manager Raj Kumar Chhetri confirmed the report that the aircraft crashed on Wednesday morning. Informing that the wreckage of ill-fated plane has already been discovered in Humla district, further information have been awaited. “A helicopter has reached the incident site and we have been informed about the death of both.” Pilot Kiran Bhattarai and Copilot Adhitya Nepali were on board the cargo aircraft. Preliminary investigation suggested that the aircraft hit a peak to crash. The aircraft had left Surkhet Airport at 6:55 am this morning and was scheduled to reach the destination in one hour. Minutes before the arrival, communications had gone disconnected with the aircraft. Published on May 16th, Wednesday, 2018 11:20 AM 
Kathmandu, May 15 For the first time ever, Nepal has sent its chopper to Mt Sisapang in Tibet, the autonomous region of China, to search Bulgarian mountaineer Boyan Petrov, who went missing for the past 10 days while climbing the mountain without help of any expert. China has allowed Nepal to carry out the search operation with its own helicopter, informed Mohan Lamsal, Managing Director of Makalu Adventure Pvt Ltd. Petro left the first base camp on April 29 and should have returned by May 5. He, however, failed to show up. “He did not return till May 5. Hence, we started searching for him,” stated Lamsal. “We first sent the rescue team to carry out the search. But, due to snowfall, they returned. We, then, tried to send the helicopter through diplomatic channels,” he added. Earlier, Petrov had scaled 10 mountains including Mt Dhaulagiri without support from the expert team. Published on May 15th, Tuesday, 2018 3:30 PM 
Myagdi, May 15 The government has started distributing relief materials to the victims of the ‘unseasonal’ flood in Tatopani area of Annapurna Rural Municipality-2 in Myagdi district. Human settlement and properties worth more than Rs 10 million were destroyed in the flood on Sunday. The flood has also buried some arable land near the human settlement. The officials at the Rural Municipality in coordination with the Ward Office mobilised excavators to remove the mud and rocks that were piled up at the narrow roads in the affected areas, informed Ward Chair Om Phagami. They have also asked for 200 to 300 gabions from the District Natural Disaster Rescue Committee for the fence to protect the human settlement from further destruction. Likewise, a team from the rescue committee has monitored the flood affected areas and collected a detail report for the relief and rescue operation. According to the District Administration Officer, a meeting held on Monday has decided to provide Rs 10,000 to each household whose house was completely destroyed in the flooding. Likewise, Rs 5,000 will be provided to families whose house was partially damaged. Published on May 15th, Tuesday, 2018 2:50 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 15 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal and CPN-UML senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal held a meeting on Monday morning to discuss multiple issues related to the proposed unification of two parties. At the time when the unification has been delayed, UML leader Nepal met Dahal at the Tulsi Lal Amatya Memorial Foundation in Chyasal, Lalitpur, following the UML Chair KP Sharma Oli’s request to call a meeting of the Party Unification Coordination Committee. The UML leader requested Dahal to end the gloomy atmosphere and discuss issues in front of party cadres at the Committee’s meeting so that they would not raise unnecessary questions on party merger and everything would be sorted out, informed sources close to Nepal. Likewise, explaining the situation and Oli’s behaviour towards his party after the visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the CPN-Maoist Centre Chair also focused on creating trustworthy and favourable environment for the unification. Meanwhile, a senior leader also informed that the party unification was delayed due to misunderstandings between leaders of both the parties as the Maoist leaders felt neglected during Modi’s visit to Nepal. Published on May 15th, Tuesday, 2018 2:23 PM 
Kathmandu, May 14 The Nepal Sports Journalists Forum today announced names of nominees for four categories of the NSJF Pulsar Sports Award, 2074. NSJF announced today that national cricket team’s Paras Khadka and Sandeep Lamichhane, badminton player Dipesh Dhami, judoka Indra Bahadur Shrestha and golfer Tanka Bahadur Karki have been nominated in the Best Male Player category. Cricketers Dipendra Singh Airee and Sandeep Lamichhane, footballer Dinesh Henjan, judo player Manita Shrestha Pradhan and boxer Punam Rawal have been nominated in the Young Player category. This means Lamichhane has been nominated in three categories this year including his nomination in the People’s Choice Award which was announced last week. Likewise, badminton player Sobha Gautam, archer Junu Awle, boxer Bimala Shrestha, footballer Savitra Bhandari and table tennis player Navita Shrestha have made it to the nominations in the Best Female Player category. Nominations for the Best Coach include Binod Das and Jagat Tamata(Cricket), Tsering Lopsang Gurung (Football), Jayant Kumar Shrestha(Badminton) and Prakash Thapa Magar (boxing). The winners of these categories along with the People’s Choice winner will get a Pulsar motorbike as the past years whereas winners from other categories will get gift hamper and cash prize of NRs. 50,000. Voting People’s Choice Award has already begun whereas winners of three awards–Lifetime Achievement Award, Para Athlete and Special Award will be announced during the event. The event is going to be held in Kathmandu this Thursday. Published on May 14th, Monday, 2018 3:48 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 14 Nepal Police says it is preparing to ask the international criminal police organisation, Interpol, to issue a diffusion notice against absconding suspects of four-month-old Darbarmarg rape case. Suspects Bikash Gautam, Ravi Poudel and Deepak Shrestha have been at large after the rape in January. Police have forwarded the case to government attorneys to decide the case they will face. The investigation report with recorded statements from the accused has been presented to the District Government Attorney Office, according to DSP Mohan Thapa at the Metropolitan Police Range. The main accused Shailesh Karki, who is said to be the victimâ€™s boyfriend, has already been arrested in March. The 22-year-old victim had reportedly gone to stay over at Darbarmarg-based Landmark Hotel with her beau on January 21. According to the victim, she was offered wine before her boyfriend, Karki, and his friends assulted her. The next morning, the victim had rushed to Kamalpokhari-based Metropolitan Police Circle to file a case against the four claiming that they gangraped her. The case came into the limelight after the police officials refused to register the case against the alleged rapists and tried to settle the case for money. Published on May 14th, Monday, 2018 2:30 PM 
Kathmandu, May 14 Nepal’s Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali says he condemns the statement made by Province 2 Chief Minister Lalbabu Raut during a civic felicitation programme in honour of visiting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi that they were struggling ‘against the discriminatory constitution’. The statement that Raut delivered in Janakpur on Friday has sparked a controversy in the political sphere. As lawmakers speaking at the House of Representatives meeting today sought the government’s response over the statement, Gyawali said the government also condemned Raut’s act as it was solely Nepal’s internal affair. He clarified that such an issue could not be an agenda for bilateral discussions. In another context, he also said the statement made by an Indian lawmaker, Kirti Azad, that Janakpur was a part of India, was aimed at spoiling the existing Nepal-India relations. The Minister said the government would talk with India over the issue. Meanwhile, Gyawali also used the opportunity to claim that recent visit of Modi to Nepal created new foundations for mutual trust and affection. Published on May 14th, Monday, 2018 2:12 PM 
Butwal, May 14 The Butwal-Dobhan road along the Siddhartha Highway has been obstructed since Monday morning following a landslide in the road section. Th vehicular movement along the Highway was halted at Tinau Rural Municipality-3 since 2:00 am after the landslip, stranding hundreds of passengers. Works to remove the land mass is underway. Another excavator has been called to remove the debris, informed constable Bhoj Bahadur Gurung at the Dobhan Area Police Office. According to Gurung, the traffic movement might resume later today.         Published on May 14th, Monday, 2018 11:52 AM 
Kathmandu, May 14 A 70-year-old double amputee from China, Xia Boyu, has successfully summitted Mount Everest early this morning. With that, he becomes the second double amputee to climb the highest mountain in the world, informed Nepal government’s liaison officer Ganesh Bahadur Katwal. He is the first double amputee to climb Mount Everest from Nepal. Xia had lost his legs to frostbite during his first Everest ascent in 1975. Since then, he had made four attempts to conquer the top of the world. Xia had reached the Everest Base Camp in 2015, but was forced to return due to the earthquake-triggered avalanche. Last year, he returned from a point at the height of around 8,000 metres. Earlier, the Nepal government had banned amputees from climbing the Everest; but the Supreme Court had later issued an interim order to stay its implementation. Published on May 14th, Monday, 2018 11:30 AM 
Hetaunda, May 14 A leader affiliated to the CPN led by Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’ has been arrested with five explosive devices from Hetaunda of Makawanpur district on Monday. According to the District Police Office, search for Durga Nath Timilsina was carried out acting on a tip off. A team deployed from Pashupatinagar Area Police Offiec arrested him from Chauwannadhaare of Kamaane in Hetaunda-8. “Timalsina had the responsibility of leading the party activities in Makawanpur, Bara, Parsa, and Rautahat districts. He is the central committee member of labour union affiliated with Nepal Communist Party,” informed SP Shailendra Shrestha. Police seized ‘pressure cooker bombs’ and ‘petrol bombs’ from his possession. The Biplav-led party had called strike on Sunday against the visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Published on May 14th, Monday, 2018 11:10 AM 
Butwal, May 13 Various groups of youth have organised a motorcycle rally protesting against a general strike called by by Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led CPN, in Butwal of Rupandehi district this afternoon. Various youth including cadres of Bibeksheel Sajha Party organised the rally from Shankarnagar to Golpark of Butwal with Nepali flags and placards. The rally later turned into a corner meet. Speaking at the meet, Bibeksheel Sajha Rupandehi district coordinator Hari Krishna Adhikari and participant Arjun Kharel among others said that such strike across the country would benefit nobody so they should be ended. They further demanded that political parties and other concerned seek some other alternatives for strike as the protest will hamper the reputation of country at the international level. Published on May 13th, Sunday, 2018 3:03 PM 
Pokhara, May 13 A bomb disposal team of the Nepal Army disposed an explosive that was kept at the Pokhara Airport in Kaski district this afternoon. The explosive was found at Gate Number One of the airport. The improvised explosive devise was found some hours after Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa was there. He is in Pokhara to attend a provincial security meeting here. According to Khadga Bahadur Khatri, spokesperson of Kaski District Police Office, search for the persons who planted the explosive is underway. Life is back to normalcy in the district now though the discovery had created a terror earlier.. Published on May 13th, Sunday, 2018 1:57 PM 
Kathmandu, May 13 Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says he will pay a visit to the country’s nother neighbour, China, very soon. Briefing the House of Representatives about the recent visit of the Indian Prime Minister, PM Oli stated that he would soon visit China as promised earlier. The date of the visit, however, is yet to be decided. Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Gyawali had visited China in April, supposedly to lay groundwork for Oliâ€™s visit. However, before he could move ahead the preparations, India proposed the date for Modi’s Nepal visit, and it effectively stopped Oli from turning north. It has been learnt that Prime Minister Oli will visit China after the announcement of annual budget for next fiscal year. Published on May 13th, Sunday, 2018 12:47 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 12 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi have reached an agreement to boost cooperation in five areas, during the delegation-level talks between the two leaders. According to the agreement, India will help Nepal address problems it faces due to its landlocked position. Similarly, India will soon launch the initial survey of the Kathmandu-Raxaul railway, a project announced by Modi during Oli’s recent visit to the southern neighbour. India has also pledged support to Bhaktapur Cancer Hospital and help procure a radio therapy machine. The two Prime Ministers have agreed to expedite work on the Pancheshwor Multi-purpose project. According to Oli and Modi, the agriculture ministers of the two countries will soon meet to prepare a roadmap of cooperation between the two countries in agriculture. The two countries have agreed to review the bilateral trade treaty. Modi and Oli also inaugurated the construction of the 900 MW Arun III project. Published on May 12th, Saturday, 2018 6:08 AM 
 Kathmandu, May 12 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has raised the issues of air routes and demonetisation during his meeting with visiting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Modi, who is on a two-day visit of Nepal, first held one-on-one talks with Prime Minister Oli and then took part in a delegation-level meeting with his Nepali counterpart. During the press conference organised after the talks, Oli reminded Modi that India still hasn’t provided exchange facility for demonetised Indian notes. He urged Modi to help Nepali exchange their old notes at the earliest. Similarly, he called on Modi to provide Nepal four new air routes so that planes entering and leaving Nepal can do so from multiple points. Oli said that Nepal wants the bilateral power trade agreement to be fully implemented. He said that the two countries are preparing to send a joint mission to the planes in Nepal and India to work on mitigating the damages caused by floods every year. The Prime Minister hoped that the report being prepared by the EPG would help boost ties between the two countries. Published on May 12th, Saturday, 2018 2:13 AM 
Kathmandu, May 11 Visiting Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has landed at Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu. After spending four hours in the holy city of Janakpur, Modi came to the capital at around 3:15 pm today. Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Gyawali received the Indian Prime Minister at the airport. Modi will be offered a guard of honour at the Army Pavilion at Tundikhel today. Then, he will visit Bahadur Bhawan and Sheetal Niwas to pay courtesy calls on Vice-President Nanda Bahadur Pun and President Bidya Devi Bhandari respectively. He will have lunch and stay at Hyatt whereas he will have bilateral talks with Nepali counterpart Oli and other officials at Dwarikaâ€™s in the evening. Oli will also host a dinner in his honour today itself. The Indian Prime Minister will leave for Muktinath on Saturday morning.   Published on May 11th, Friday, 2018 3:45 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 11 Police in Kathmandu district say they have arrested three persons suspecting they might jeopardise harmony between Nepal and India as Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is arriving in Kathmandu in a couple of hours. The arrestees include Bimal Burlakoti of Dhading, Prakash Subedi of Kathmandu and Govinda Bohora, according to the Metropolitan Police Crime Division. They are members of a political group, Greater Nepal Movement, which has been demanding that the Sugauli Treaty signed between Nepal and India about their border issues be scrapped. Likewise, the group is active in raising voices against reported border encroachments by India. SSP Dhiraj Pratap Singh says police are interrogating for further investigation. Published on May 11th, Friday, 2018 12:46 PM 
Kathmandu, May 11 When Nepali politicians and leaders were preparing for a grand welcome for Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his two-day state visit to Nepal, social media was flooded with enraged comments from common Nepalis. The general public took to Twitter to remind India and Modi about the wounds the 2015 blockade caused to all Nepalis.Â Various hashtags â€˜NotMyGuestâ€™,â€™ModiNotWelcomeInNepalâ€™, among others can be seen on Twitter. Criticising the visit, a hashtag has been trending on Twitter (#BlockadeWasCrimeMrModi) for the past two days. Even the former European Ambassador to Nepal, Rensje Teerink, tweeted with the hashtag #BlockadeWasCrimeMrModi. She garnered a lot of appreciation from the social media users. Teerink, however, deleted it later. Looks like the TwitteratiÂ are in no mood to welcome Modi after the unofficial blockade in 2015. Here are a few tweets that summed up the mood: trends on nepal pic.twitter.com/p01ZW69GlG â€” Super Maila (@iMaila_Saau) May 11, 2018 #blockade was crime Mr modi REALITY OF INDIA pic.twitter.com/CQUkxNOMcD â€” bishnu poudel (@bishnupoudel964) May 11, 2018 #BlockadewasCrimeMrModi For the attention of @PMOIndia @narendramodi pic.twitter.com/1ORg3fTEz8 â€” RatnaSansar Shrestha (@rsansar) May 10, 2018 #BlockadeWasCrimeMrModi
We want justic#BlockadeWasCrimeMrModi #BlockadeWasCrimeMrModi pic.twitter.com/04nAeCPEKH â€” Pà¤°à¥‡à¤® (@Simprembhandari) May 11, 2018 Visits
Prince Harry UK: In Gurkha’s land, I need no guards
Indian PM: Need countless commandoes + >10k securitymen. Clear everyone in his route of visit Things are crystal clear, how heinous crime Modi did n he knows, he sees every Nepali as a threat. #BlockadeWasCrimeMrModi â€” Bhanu Chalise (@bhanuchalise) May 10, 2018 Well Come Modi Jee #BlockadeWasCrimeMrModi pic.twitter.com/c1fYtcLXE9 
Janakpurdham, May 11 Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has landed in Janakpurdham, an ancient holy city in southern Nepal. Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli received him at the Janaki Temple. The two PMs are scheduled to offer a joint puja at the Temple before Modi will receive a civic felicitation at local Baarhabigha ground. He will also address the function. Earlier, Modi had landed at a nearby airport on an Air India aircraft. Minister for Defence Ishwar Pokharel and Province 2 Chief Minister Lalbabu Raut jointly welcomed him to Nepal at the airport. Modi will fly to Kathmandu this afternoon. He is scheduled to hold meetings with Nepali officials including the President, the Vice-President and the Prime Minister later. Published on May 11th, Friday, 2018 11:32 AM 
 Kathmandu, May 10 The Lalitpur Metropolitan City has proposed to bring electric buses and smart roadside lights. The Metropolis has already started homework to operate the buses as per the public private partnership model. “As electric buses are environment friendly, we thought it will be beneficial for the cultural and touristic sites in Lalitpur, “said spokesperson of the Metropolis, Raju Maharjan. The City has also formed a committee to study the proposal and submit it to the working committee. “We will coordinate with Sajha Yatayat too. We can coordinate with other companies and operate the bus,” added Maharjan. An electric bus with all facilities can cost up to Rs 20 million. “Though it is expensive, the maintenance cost is too cheap as compared to diesel buses. The battery lasts up to 12 years and does not need to be repaired frequently like other buses,” stated Maharjan. A recent study has showed that the use of electric buses can reduce pollution in Kathmandu Valley by one third. Likewise, smart lights will be installed along major roads of Lalitpur. A study for the same has also  begun, informed Mayor Chiribabu Maharjan. Published on May 10th, Thursday, 2018 4:27 PM 
Kathmandu, May 10 The government has decided to stop providing all allowances, except local and inflation allowances, that were being provided to government employees. The new policy will be implemented from July 17. The Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday endorsed a new policy so as to promote austerity and effectiveness in the public expenditure that was haphazardly spent by government authorities. The office bearers in government offices were provided more than a dozen allowances, which was almost triple their salary. The policy would also review the promotion system on the basis of work performance. According to sources at the Ministry of Finance, more than three dozen points have been included in the policy to make the government officials prudent.   Published on May 10th, Thursday, 2018 4:26 PM 
Kathmandu, May 10 Rastriya Prajatantra Party lawmaker Rajendra Lingden has urged the government to rescue residents of his constituency in Jhapa district of southeastern Nepal from the risk of flooding. He warns that he will launch a hunger strike if the government fails to heed his demand. Addressing the pre-budget discussion in the House of Representatives on Thursday, lawmaker Lingden said, “Other parties obstruct the Parliament meeting to make the authorities review the plan, what should I do to stop you from turning deaf ear to my demands?” “Lawmakers of big parties warn of obstructing parliamentary proceedings. Should I go on hunger strike? Will you save the locals from the risk of flooding in our area then?” questioned Lingden. Meanwhile, the lawmaker also criticised the proposal of Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwa not to allocate budget for small scale projects and programmes. Published on May 10th, Thursday, 2018 4:16 PM 
Kathmandu, March 10 Nepal’s Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa last week said that the impending visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Nepal is solely for religious and spiritual purpose and it has nothing to do with politics. However, there are analysts who believe that one of the most important reasons Modi decided to visit Nepal, is linked with the biggest event in Indian politics this week–the elections in the southern state of Karnataka. Well, what’s the connection between the two events? Modi’s party the Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party wants to boost its image as a pro-Hindu party as it campaigns for the elections–in a move to woo voters. Anil Chamdia of BBC Hindi writes, “The Indian Election Commission enforces a silent period of two days before the election scheduled for May 12 prohibiting parties from undertaking any promotional activity. Hence, Narendra Modi has came up with a different idea to run his campaign.” During the Assam and Tripura elections in 2014, the unveiling of the BJP’s manifesto was telecast live by the Indian media. Similarly, Modi’s visit to the Somnath temple in Uttar Pradesh during the election last year was also telecast live by the media in India. The BJP has been criticised for using Hinduism as propaganda to promote the party. Continuing this tradition, the Indian Prime Minister’s visit to Janaki Temple, Muktinath and Pashupatinath in Nepal will be broadcast live as the ‘main news’ in the Indian media–an effective way to reach to the voters. The Election Commission in India can easily prohibit the BJP from campaigning during the silent period, but it has no authority to stop Modi from running the campaign show in Nepal! Published on May 10th, Thursday, 2018 1:09 PM 
Kathmandu, May 9 State Minister for Health Padma Kumari Aryal says she will ensure establishment of at least one government hospital in each of the 753 local levelswithin the next four years. As the right to health is a fundamental right of citizens, a ‘One Local Level: One Hospital’ programme would be launched in the upcoming policy and programme of the government, said Aryal. The hospitals will have at least 15 beds. As much as Rs 46 billion has been allocated for health sector in the current fiscal year. The amount is likely to be reduced to Rs 43 billion for the next year. As of current data, 2,312 wards lack health units across the country. “Time and technology-friendly health service will be the priority. Sufficient health assistants will be mobilised and health campaigns will also be organised in community schools,”she added. Similarly, a consultation with concerned authorities on deciding the new fees for private hospitals and its implementation is underway, according to her. Currently, private hospitals have been randomlyÂ  charging huge amount from the patients for the service. Likewise, Minister Aryal said she was committed to making health insurance mandatory for well-to-do people, providing discount to poor and free health service to the deprived.     Published on May 9th, Wednesday, 2018 4:38 PM 
 Dolpa, May 9 Two workers were killed on the spot and another one has sustained serious injuries when they were hit by rocks during the rock blasting works along the under-construction Khadang-Tripurakot section of the Jajarkot-Dolpa road at Chiplebheer area of Tripurasundari Municipality-6 on Tuesday. Those killed in the incident are Dev Bahadur Chand, 21, of Aathbiskot Municipality-10 and 29-year-old Amrit Rana Magar of Aathbiskot Municipality-12 in Rukum district, police said. Forty-one years old Shakti Bahadur Shahi of Aathbiskot Municipality-9, who was seriously injured in the incident has been taken to the Rukum District Hospital for treatment. The bodies of the two deceased workers have been sent to their homes. RSS Published on May 9th, Wednesday, 2018 3:43 PM 
Kathmandu, May 9 CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli and CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal on Wednesday held a one-on-one meeting for around three hours to discuss next steps for party unification. The two parties are preparing to merge for last seven months, but their efforts are yet to materialise. However, it has recently been reported that the two leaders have already forged agreements on all contentious issues and the unification is most likely to be announced in the third week of this month. A source at the secretariat of Prime Minister Oli says the two leaders today focused on developing and strengthening the environment of trust between the two parties. More particularly, the two leaders discussed suspicions created by a recent tweet of PM Oli, in which he had reportedly doubted the Maoist Centre’s commitment to the unification. But, Oli told Dahal today that he did not mean that, and it was just a failure to express the intention in right words, according to the source. Published on May 9th, Wednesday, 2018 2:31 PM 
Kathmandu, May 9 Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security, Gokarna Bista, says that the government has started homework to increase the minimum wage of labourers in Nepal. The Ministry is preparing to increase the minimum wage of Rs 9,700 to Rs 15,000 a month to be effective from the next fiscal year which begins in mid-July, said Minister Bista, adding, “To end the exploitation on workers, the government is planning to make it mandatory that salaries and wages are paid through banks. The new provision might be implemented from July 17.” Trade unionists were demanding the increment to more than Rs 15,000 as it is hard to survive with the just Rs 9,700 these days. After the implementation of the new provision, the companies and firms will have to submit the details of their employees’ salary for renewal of their organisation, according to him. Likewise, the Ministry has also started homework to manage ‘seed money’ for the Nepali migrant workers who have been living in prison due to lack of blood money, he informs. Likewise, the Ministry is also planning to take strict action against the recruitment agencies that have been cheating foreign employment aspirants for long. A detail report about such companies has been sent to the Minister.   The Minister says unskilled labourers will be prohibited from going abroad for employment opportunities soon and preparations have already begun for it. He says the government will provide trainning to them and the sessions would be extended up to the local level.     Published on May 9th, Wednesday, 2018 1:07 PM 
Kathmandu, May 9 Nepal’s Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali says the government is conscious about how it can take advantage of multidimensional relationships it has established with neighbours and other countries. Gyawalis statement is an apparent response to comments that the government might compromise its independence and sovereignty as it is preparing to welcome Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a number of ‘civic felicitations’ this Friday. Whereas social media are full of comments that Nepal should not give a warm welcome to Modi as he imposed the inhumane border blockade in the wake of promulgation of new constitution here in 2015 September, Gyawali says his government knows how to respond to persons and countries differently with the movement of time. “The government takes its stance whenever it is necessary. They should remember that KP Oli was the Prime Minister that time too, the CPN-UML was in the government leadership,” the party’s secretary and a confidant of Prime Minister Oli says in an interview with Onlinekhabar, “The UML knows how it has to take stance on national interests. Nobody needs teach us.” In another context, Gyawali says civic felicitations to be offered to Modi will be just reflections of the culture of hospitality that Nepali people have for their guests. He reminds that people of Gujarat, Modi’s home state, had also offered a civil felicitation to Oli when he visited India in 2016, just few months after the blockade was over. “The government is alert about protecting national interests. Rest assured that we will not let people feel humiliated with our foreign relationships,” he says, “Felicitations or paying respects are related to our conduct and culture; and no one should be overexcited about it.” Meanwhile, the Minister clarifies that Modi’s trip is equally significant on both political and cultural dimensions for bilateral relationships as he will be visiting Hindu and Buddhist shrines of Janaki Temple and Muktinath as well as holding formal talks with officials here. Published on May 9th, Wednesday, 2018 12:52 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 8 India has hinted that it is positive towards establishing an energy bank in Nepal so as to overcome power outage issues in both Nepal and India. The concept of energy banking was put forth to supply electricity to the southern neighbour from Nepal during rainy season and import the needed quantity of electricity from India during winter season in Nepal. According to Prabal Adhikari, spokesperson at the Nepal Electricity Authority, Nepal has agreed on installing production equipment at all its sub-stations as the errors inÂ  substations in Nepal might affect the system of India. It is being done as per the suggestion by the Indian Electricity Authority, he adds. The decision was made during a meeting of the Nepal-India Joint Operation Committee held recently. The committee comprises six members. Likewise, the meeting decided to form a production committee to solve the the problems that might arise at the Nepal-India intercountry transmission line.       Published on May 8th, Tuesday, 2018 2:35 PM 
Kathmandu, May 8 A meeting of the CPN Maoist Centre parliamentary party held in Singhadarbar on Tuesday decided to make Dinanath Sharma its parliamentary party leader in the National Assembly. The meeting also endorsed the parliamentary party’s charter, informed chip whip of the party Dev Prasad Gurung. Similarly, the party has also decided to form a coordination committee to expedite infrastructure development and construction works while coordinating with all provincial lawmakers. Similarly, the party will also form a law department to ease the formation of law, added Gurung. Meanwhile, the party chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal also directed the lawmakers to focus on the formation of new laws to implement the constitution.       Published on May 8th, Tuesday, 2018 1:53 PM 
Mahottari, May 8 Province 2 Minister for Internal Affairs and Law, Gyanendra Kumar Yadav, has directed heads of all local governments (municipalities and rural municipalities) in the Province to be present at a ceremony to be organised to welcome Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is scheduled to visit Janakpurdham on May 11 during his Nepal visit. Speaking at a programme held in Jaleshwor on Monday, he also called on all civil servants and members of the public to be present to welcome the Indian PM. He also informed them about routes which Modi is scheduled to take during the visit. Mahottari district has 15 local levels, including 10 municipalities and five rural municipalities. RSS Published on May 8th, Tuesday, 2018 12:04 PM 
Kathmandu, May 7 Police say they have arrested Acharya Shreeniwas, a Hindu spiritual leader based in Biratnagar of Morang district in eastern Nepal, on the charge of orchestrating his own shooting. The leader was reportedly shot at in the wee hours of April 8. Police had arrested four persons in connection with the case. But, during investigation, it was found that Shreeniwas himself planned it, according to SP Arun BC, Chief of the Morang District Police Office. The suspects arrested earlier had told police that Shreeniwas himself mobilised them for shooting, he claims.  Earlier, police had suspected involvement of Mongol National Organisation, an underground outfit, in the attack as some fliers published by the organisation were found near the incident site. The official says further investigation is still underway.   Published on May 7th, Monday, 2018 3:19 PM 
Kathmandu, May 7 After transport entrepreneurs agreed to abide by the new rule that all transport entrepreneurs have to get registered themselves as private companies, but not nonprofit NGOs, and to stop all forms of protest including the transport strike, the government has also agreed to resume transactions with bank accounts of their previous organisations registered as NGOs. Earlier, a panel led by the Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa had directed the Nepal Rastra Bank to suspend bank accounts of such committees and the central bank had also implemented the directive by suspending transactions with 245 such committees. But, during a midnight talk held between Minister for Physical Infrastructure and Transport Raghubir Mahaseth and representatives of transport entrepreneurs yesterday, they came to an agreement to lift the suspension if the transporters agree on all other rules set by the government. The two sides organised a press conference in Kathmandu this morning to share details of the agreement. Published on May 7th, Monday, 2018 2:47 PM 
Kathmandu, May 7 A Japanese climber trying to summit Mt Lobuche near Everest has died due to ‘altitude sickness’, local police said. Takahiro Kuga, 42, breathed his last on Sunday at Lobuche Base camp at Khumbu Pasanglhamu-4 while being rushed to the to the Nicole Niquille Hospital in Lukla, the gateway to Everest. The climber’s body has been airlifted to Kathmandu. Although the cause of his death has not been confirmed, preliminary reports suggest that he died due to altitude sickness. This is the second death on Nepal’s Himalayas this climbing season, which extends from April-June.  An Italian climber died on Mt Dhaulagiri last week. Hundreds of climbers from around the world come to Nepal in the spring season to summit different mountains in the Himalayas. Published on May 7th, Monday, 2018 2:47 PM 
Pokhara, May 7 The Province 4 Assembly is likely to give a new ‘permanent’ name to the Province within next one month. The constitution authorises provincial legislative body to name the Province. For now, the federal government has given numerical names for seven provinces. Province 6, however, has already renamed itself as Karnali. The Province 4 Assembly had formed a committee comprising lawmakers of various parties to collect people’s opinions about name and capital of the province and recommend a name. The committee has already collected feedback from members of the public about the name. However, it has not finalised its report as the ruling parties, CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre, did not give their opinions about the issue. Subsequently, the Assembly meeting on Sunday extended the term of committee by one month.     Published on May 7th, Monday, 2018 11:51 AM 
Kathmandu, May 7 Efforts for the unification between CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre that began around seven months ago are likely to conclude fruitfully within next two weeks as UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli, also the incumbent prime minister, has agreed to handover the government leadership to Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal for last two years of his five-year term in the government. According to negotiators, Oli and Dahal have already made agreements about roadblocks of unification last week though a written agreement is yet to be signed. A UML leader says the party’s senior leaders Madhav Kumar Nepal and Jhala Nath Khanal have consented Oli to make these agreements. Earlier, Dahal had demanded that the premiership be shared equally whereas he be given the right to lead the party as executive chief till the end of Oli’s premiership. On the demand of executive leadership, Oli is positive that the issue can be settled in mutual consent when the need be. Negotiators say the Maoist leader had also sought an endorsement of UML leaders for his desire to take over the party leadership from the next general convention after around five years. The UML leaders including Oli, however, did not agree on it, forcing Dahal to drop the demand. Another bone of contention between the parties was ratio of two parties in the unified party’s organisational structures. Whereas the Maoist Centre had demanded that it be 50:50, the UML was reluctant to buy the idea. Now, with the fresh agreement, the Maoist Centre will get 38 to 42 per cent in the party structures. The size of central committee will be made quite bigger to adjust more Maoist leaders. The two parties are already ready to sign the agreement. However, the leaders will be busy during the Nepal visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi scheduled for next week, therefore the announcement of unification will be made only after he will return to India, according to Maoist Centre spokesperson Pampha Bhusal. The new party will get registered with the Election Commission immediately, says UML Deputy General Secretary Bishnu Paudel. Published on May 7th, Monday, 2018 10:29 AM 
Bajhang, May 6 Five persons including four members of a same family were killed after being swept away by a rivulet in Diklagad, Thalara Rural Municipality-4 of Bajhang district on Saturday night. The District Police Office says local Harka BK (27), his wife Devaki Devi aka Dalli (26), their daughter Manisha (12), son Saksham (3) and thier relative Kalasi (35) died when they were swept away by the stream nearby their house. They were heading home from local Dhodhekhet Bazaar after 8 pm yesterday. They got swept away by the flooded rivulet while crossing it, according to police. The family is survived by old parents of Harka, one son and one daughter. Police say the incident came to light only this morning. Preparations are underway to bring the bodies to a nearby hospital for postmortem. Published on May 6th, Sunday, 2018 3:51 PM 
Kathmandu, May 6 The government has said that it will release recently arrested transport entrepreneurs only after signing a commitment paper in which they state their support to the government’s policy and directives, and operate the public vehicle as per government orders. Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa has ordered the officials to release the arrested transport entrepreneurs only after signing the commitment paper. Those who refuse to sign will be chargesheeted, the Home Minister said. Earlier, on Friday and Saturday, police had arrested dozens of transport entrepreneurs as they imposed a public transport strike demanding the government revoke the decision to stop registration and renewal of their committees as NGOs so that they can impose their syndicates on certain routes. Spokesperson at the Ministry Ram Krishna Subedi says, “The arrested transport entrepreneurs have promised to support the government’s decision and pleaded for the release. We are preparing to release them after making them sign the commitment paper.” The transport entrepreneurs had halted the transportation facility across the country on Friday, defying the government order to stop registration and renewal of the transport committees and end the syndicate system. Meanwhile, some officials of the transport committees and Federation of Nepalese National Transport Entrepreneurs have been released after signing the commitment paper. Five officials of the Federation were released in Rupandehi on Saturday. Likewise, some officials of the committees were also released in Saptari. Published on May 6th, Sunday, 2018 1:14 PM 
Pokhara, May 6 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says political parties should not be divided into ruling and opposition camps, but should be united on issues of development of the country. The former prime minister and a key leader of current ruling coalition says all political parties should be together as ruling parties for development, prosperity and stability. Dahal claims he brought all major forces of the nation together in the aftermath of devastating 2015 earthquake. The leader was speaking at a function, during which the newly elected Province 4 Committee of Federation of Nepali Journalists assumed their office. On the occasion, the leader said he and his party were committed to press freedom. “I am clear about press freedom from the very beginning. Of course, there were some errors during the war or the peace process.Â  But, I am on the side of press freedom with you.” Published on May 6th, Sunday, 2018 12:41 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 6 Nepal’s Ministry of Education, Science and Technology says private schools will be prohibited from selling and distributing school uniforms, textbooks, stationery and school bags to students. According to a five-point agreement signed in presence of the Minister for Education, Giriraj Mani Pokharel, on Saturday, the schools will also have to refund various fees collected from the guardians if they happen to cross the standard set by the government. With the agreement, agitating student unions have withdrawn their protest programmes. “The private schools sold textbooks, uniforms, and school bags from the school premises at expensive rates to their guardians making huge profits from such essential items. The guardians were compelled to buy the stationery and uniforms at a high price and could not even bargain,” said Surendra Basnet, Vice-President of the All Nepal National Independent Students Union (Revolutionary). But now, the fees taken unlawfully should either be refunded or adjusted, and a committee would be formed to ensure monitoring of such activities. Likewise, the provision of providing 10 per cent scholarship should be made transparent. Published on May 6th, Sunday, 2018 11:46 AM 
 Kathmandu, May 4 The Nepali Army has completed the construction of as many as 26 road projects across the country so far. As per the development and construction directives of the Nepal Army, the army has constructed 1048 kilometres of road. Most of the projects were constructed in rural and hilly districts. The forcehas constructed various road sections including Surkhet-Jumla, Nagma-Gamgadhi, Besisahar-Chame, Musikot, Musikot-Burtibang, Baglung-Beni-Jomsom, Jomsom-Korala, Chhinu-Jajarkot, Salyan-Musikot, Abuwa-Bhachchek, and Gorkha-Arughat. Thearmy also constructed tunnel for Nepal-Tarai fast-track, Gorkha-Manakamana road, Champapur-Barahakshetra alternative road, entrance of Upper Tamakoshi hydropower among others. However, major other projects including the Kaligandaki corridor, Karnali corridor, Trishuli-Syaprubesi road, and Gorkha-Arughat-Lorke road are yet to be constructed. RSS Published on May 4th, Friday, 2018 8:40 PM 
Kathmandu, May 4 The government has decided to investigate the legality of assets belonging to agitating transport entrepreneurs and freeze their bank account. The Minister for Home Affairs decided to investigate assets of the office bearers of the Federation of Nepalese National transport Entrepreneurs and transport committees, ministry sources told Onlinekhabar. The Department of Transport Management will make the details of the office-bearers to the Department of Money Laundering Investigation. The details of the leaders have already been collected by the District Administration Offices across the country. According to sources at the ministry, the department has written to the Nepal Rastra Bank through the Finance Ministry to freeze the bank accounts of the agitating transport entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, the government has said it isÂ ready to address the genuine demands of the entrepreneurs if they sit for negotiations. Published on May 4th, Friday, 2018 4:39 PM 
 Kathmandu, May 4 One of the key leaders of the ‘pro-syndicate’ group of public transport operators in Nepal has been arrested on Friday afternoon, police said. Saroj Sitaula, the general secretary of e Federation of Nepalese National Transport Entrepreneurs (FNNTE), was arrested in Bhrikutimandap in Kathmandu, a few hours after home minister Ram Bahadur Thapa ordered police to arrest the leadership of the Federation for going on strike illegally. According to a police source, Sitaula was on his way to a press conference when he was held by police in civvies. He is being held at the Metropolitan Police Range in Singha Durbar. Sitaula, who is believed to be aligned with the CPN Maoist Centre, was coordinating protests against the government decision to force transport operator groups, working as NGOs, to register as companies. Published on May 4th, Friday, 2018 3:54 PM 
 Dhangadhi, May 3 At least three persons died when a jeep they were travelling in was swept away by a flash flood in Jaiprithvi Municipality-7 in Bajhang at around 8:00 pm on Wednesday. Ammaraj Ban (31) of Khaptad Channa-2, Asu Oad (24) of Kedarsyu-1, and Ramesh Chand (26) of Dodhara, Kanchanpur, lost their lives in the incident. The jeep (Se 1 Ja 820) heading towards Chainpur from Jhota of Bajhang was swept away by the flood in Chautha river following incessant rainfall last night. Police recovered the vehicle at around 2:00 pm on Thursday. The vehicle fell some 50 metres down into a ravine and got buried, said DSP Rishi Kandel in Bajhang. Police have recovered the body of the victims. Meanwhile, the flood has also damaged wheat in the area. Published on May 3rd, Thursday, 2018 4:04 PM 
Kathmandu, May 3 Premonsoon activities that have remained active in the country since the past week will continue for next few days, according to meteorologists. Consequently, sporadic rainfall will continue. Moisture-laden winds originating from the Bay of Bengal and Westerly winds have resulted in the change in weather conditions causing rainfall, according to the Meteorological Forecasting Division. As a result, many parts of the country are experiencing adverse weather conditions. “The change in weather and occurrence of rain is a result of the premonsoon becoming active. It is continued for last five days,” meteorologist Barun Poudel said, adding it would continue for few more days. Change in the weather and light rainfall continue to take place in many parts of the country today as well. Premonsoon in Nepal is usually active from March to May while premonsoon rain happens from June 10 to September 23, but it changes at times. Maximum and minimum temperatures of Kathmandu Valley today are 27 and 16 degrees Celsius respectively, according to the Division. RSS Published on May 3rd, Thursday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Kathmandu, May 3 Transport entrepreneurs protesting the government decision to stop registration and renewal of their committees as NGOs have stopped providing long-route bus services from Thursday afternoon apparently in a bid to make the government let them continue their monopoly as syndicates. The transportation was halted after an announcement by the Federation of Nepalese National Transport Entrepreneurs Association. As per the protest programme, the Federation has warned of stopping operation of public vehicles across the country from Friday. According to an official of the Federation, buses that leave for farther destinations today will not reach their respective destinations till midnight itself, affecting the protest programme for tomorrow. “Hence, we have decided to halt the bus services from Thursday afternoon. Night buses will not operate too.” Only 123 buses have left for their respective destinations today, informed the Lhotse Multipurpose Pvt Ltd, the company that manages Naya Bus Park of Gongabu. Pankaj Malla, manager of Lhotse said, “Some committee have closed their counters while others are preparing to close.” However, Malla said that he had been requesting different committees to resume their service. Published on May 3rd, Thursday, 2018 2:46 PM 
Kathmandu, May 3 The chairperson of ruling coalition partner CPN-Maoist Centre, Pushpa Kamal Dahal, on Thursday has expressed his dissatisfaction over the government decision to cancel public holidays on various ethnic festivals. Dahal says he will talk with Prime Minister and CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli over the issue and ask him to reconsider it. Receiving a delegation of Nepal Federation of Indigenous Nationalities (NEFIN), which claims to be the umbrella oganisation of all indigenous communities in the country, to his residence in Khumaltar of Lalitpur today, Dahal said he was not consulted while making the decision. “The issue was not discussed with me earlier,” Dahal said, “Therefore, I will support you over this issue.” Earlier, in the last week of March, the government had cut out 12 public holidays whereas restricted holidays of Lhosar, Christmas, Chhath and Maghi festivals among others to the communities and regions celebrating them. Following the decision, NEFIN had launched a  protest demanding the withdrawal of the decision. Published on May 3rd, Thursday, 2018 10:48 AM 
       Kathmandu, May 3 Two investment management companies in Kathmandu, established and led by foreigners and Nepalis respectively, on Wednesday announced the launch of a joint venture, which according to them will be work towards promoting SMEs in the country. The joint venture between Kathmandu-based investment management company One to Watch, established by Dutch national Willem Grimminck, and True North Associates, a company owned by Nepali banker Suman Joshi, has a target of investing in small and medium-sized enterprises working in multiple sectors including agriculture, infrastructure, healthcare education and energy within next ten years. “This is an important day for Nepal,” Grimminck announced, “The launch of this joint venture marks a shift in private equity market here. This is the first time local and international investors are coming together to support early-stage growth companies.” According to him, they now will make investments in the enterprises and sectors which have a potential to help the country grow and develop in overall. “Our priority is the companies that contribute to the development of Nepal, make impacts here.” Meanwhile, Joshi clarified that startups will not benefit from their programmes now as their focus is small and medium-sized enterprises which have an experience of at least four to five years into the business world so that they can assure impacts of the investment. Both the managing directors of the joint venture stated that their initiative will have three offerings for Nepali SMEs: access to finance, a combination of experiences and expertise, and expansion of services. “Our partnership will provide Nepali companies an increased access, not only for capital but also for the market,” Joshi shared, “This is a good marriage between a Nepali and a foreigner—a new model in Nepali fund market.” Joshi, who retired as a banker after working for leading Nepali banks for 24 years, said that his company, True North Associates, decided to combine its SME portfolio with that of One to Watch though True North is not limited to SMEs only because Nepal has a really small market for investment in SMEs; hence they need not compete but cooperate. “Further, our partnership is aimed at combining skills, experiences, networks, and relationships that two of us already have as individual companies,” Grimminck said, “We will also organise other supporting activities for small and medium-sized enterprises and it will make us stand out from the rest.” Nepal Impact Investment Community 2 Meanwhile, One to Watch also announced the launch of its Nepal Impact Investment Community 2 (NIIC 2), which the company hopes, will become Nepal’s largest private equity fund. It aims to raise around Euro 20 million (more than Rs 2.5 billion). Grimmink said the estimated life of the fund is 10 to 12 years, in which they will make investments in the first half and collect back the money and exit from SMEs in the second half. Around 15 to 20 companies can benefit from the fund in total, he said, adding, the first investment will be made in next 1.5 years. “A substantial fund size is needed to begin the actual investment. However, we have not set any benchmark as the minimum requirement for it.” Grimmink hoped that both domestic and international investors will contribute their money to their joint venture as both the companies already have proven success in the past and they have a strong presence in both domestic and international markets. Grimmink also hinted at the possibility of expanding their market further even after next 10 to 12 years. “Our forwarding ambition is a fund of Euro 10 million. It will be realised as soon as possible,” he smiled, “The Nepali market is already ready for it. This market deserves such a fund. But it has to be done step by step.” Published on May 3rd, Thursday, 2018 10:09 AM 
Kathmandu, May 2 Morang police on Tuesday have arrested Senior Superintendent of Police Dibesh Lohani for his alleged involvement in the smuggling and disappearance of 33 kilogram gold. A probe committee formed to investigate into the case had called him to record the statement at the Morang District Police Office on Tuesday afternoon. Police had arrested him after recording the statement. After his arrest, the number of arrestees in connection with the case has reached 29. SSP Lohani was dragged into the case after he raised questions against the investigation conducted by the police team led by DSP Prajit KC during Lohani’s tenure as Chief of Metropolitan Crime Division. Meanwhile, police filed a case against the 62 suspects arrested in connection with smuggling and disappearance of 33.5 kg gold and the subsequent murder of Sanam Shakya, one of the mules used by smugglers. A probe committee under the coordination of Ishwar Paudel, Joint Secretary at the Home Ministry, was formed to investigate into the case. Published on May 2nd, Wednesday, 2018 4:36 PM 
Kathmandu, May 2 Lalitpur Metropolitan City Mayor Chiribabu Maharjan has recently written a letter to the Ministry of Finance demanding that the Ministry return the rental tax its Internal Revenue Department collected against a constitutional provision in the first nine months of this fiscal year. Local governments like the Metropolitan City and the Department were at odds over their authorities after the constitution authorised local governments to collect rental tax which the Department was collecting earlier. So, in the first nine months of current fiscal (up to mid-April), both the bodies collected the tax. Local bodies collectedÂ two per cent of rent as rental tax whereas the IRD collected 10 per cent as a provision of the Income Tax Act. Finally, the government decided to let local bodies collect the tax, entire 12 per cent of rental income, and directed the Department to stop it. After the decision came into effect, the City Mayor wrote to the Ministry demanding that the City get the tax collected in those nine months. Maharjan has also argued that the City cannot meet its revenue collection target if the Ministry does not return the money. Meanwhile, Finance Ministry’s spokesperson Kishor Jang Karki says the Ministry will respond to the letter soon though the issue has already been settled by the Cabinet. Published on May 2nd, Wednesday, 2018 11:42 AM 
Biratnagar, May 2 Police will file a case against the 62 suspects arrested in connection with smuggling and disappearance of 33.5 kg gold and the subsequent murder of Sanam Shakya, one of the mules used by smugglers. The case will be filed at the Morang District Court today. The suspects will face three charges for kidnapping, murder and organised crime as per evidence submitted by police at the District Government Attorney Office, according to SP Arun Kumar BC, Chief at the District Police Office. Those who will face the chargesheet today include 34 absconding persons including alleged mastermind Chudamani Upreti alias Gore and 28 others arrested in connection with the case. They also include six police officials, three businesspersons, six suspects of Sanam Shaky murder case, and 13 staff at the Tribhuvan International Airport. Earlier, a probe committee was formed under the leadership of Joint Secretary at the Minister of Home Affairs Ishwor Poudel to investigate into the murder and gold smuggling cases. The whole fiasco came to light when the group of Gore killed Sanam Shakya on March 3 after the 33 kg gold smuggled from TIA disappeared on January 21. Police had found Shakya’s body while it was being taken to Biratnagar-3 on January 22. Published on May 2nd, Wednesday, 2018 11:01 AM 
Kathmandu, May 2 Over three dozen positions of district judge across the country are vacant for last few weeks. However, Acting Chief Justice Deepak Raj Joshee has been unable to call a meeting of the Judicial Council to decide the appointment owing to undue pressure from some officials of Judicial Service who recently could not pass an examination the Judicial Service Commission conducted to appoint judges through an open competition. The officials have been demanding that the Council appoint judges on the basis of seniority first before appointing them through the open competition. Therefore, Joshee is in the mood to begin the appointment process after he gets appointed the Chief Justice though he still can call the meeting as the Acting CJ. Earlier, 16 persons had passed the examination conducted by the Commission for the positions. They are waiting for the appointment. Since there are 38 positions vacant, the officials who failed the test are now piling pressure on Joshee to appoint them on the basis of seniority besides those 16 selected through the examination.   Published on May 2nd, Wednesday, 2018 10:54 AM 
Kathmandu, May 1, 2018 As much as Rs 1.6 million would be spent to remove concrete structures constructed during the post-earthquake reconstruction of historic Ranipokhari. The concrete structures made to rebuild the historic pond had to be removed after locals and culture experts protested, demanding them be reconstructed adopting traditional methods and styles. “A notice for tenders will be announced in a week, calling to remove the concrete structures. The reconstruction will start from May end,” said Information Officer at Kathmandu Metropolitan City Office, Basanta Acharya. A meeting held between Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Rabindra Prasad Adhikari, KMC Mayor Bidya Sundar Shakya, and Department of Archaeology Director General Bhesh Narayan Dahal on April 5 had decided to remove the concrete structures after pressure from the locals. The DoA has been reconstructing the Balgopaleshwor Temple whereas the KMC has taken the responsibility to construct the wall surrounding the historic pond. Till date, around Rs three million has already been spent to construct Ranipokhari. Published on May 1st, Tuesday, 2018 3:37 PM 
Kathmandu, May 1 The Chief of Defence Forces in Thailand, General Thanchaiyan Srisuwan, is coming to Kathmandu on Wednesday upon an investigation from the Chief of Army Staff of Nepal, General Rajendra Chhetri. The Nepali Army Directorate of Public Relations says the Thai General is paying a four-day official visit on Nepal. During the visit, the official is scheduled to meet the President, the Prime Minister and the Defence Minister, according to the Directorate. He will also hold talks with CoAS Chhetri at the NA headquarters and visit the Birendra Peace Keeping Training Centre in Panchkhal of Kavrepalanchok district. Srisuwan will return home on May 5 after a visit to Pokhara and Lumbini, among others, the Directorate has said. RSS Published on May 1st, Tuesday, 2018 2:46 PM 
Hetaunda, May 1 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa has said that some power centres are trying to push the country towards instability when the country is heading towards peace and stability after three-tier elections held last year. Addressing a provincial security seminar in Hetaunda of Makawanpur today, Minsiter Thapa accused them of creating instability in the name of ‘shadow government’. “The government is committed to controlling all such incidents including corruption, smuggling and syndicates that will hinder the development in the country,” stated the Home Minister. Stating that the campaign to end the monopoly of syndicates would not stop at any cost, he further stated that anyone supporting syndicates would face action. He further stated that a new peace and security policy of the country would be implemented at all levels. In another context, the CPN-Maoist Centre leader further claimed that the unification of the CPN-UML and the Maoist Centre was a must and it would lead the nation towards political stability. Published on May 1st, Tuesday, 2018 1:34 PM 
Kathmandu, May 1 The government is preparing to make it mandatory for employers to pay their employees salary through banking channels mandatory. Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security Gokarna Bista has begun preparations to amend Labour Regulations to implement the new system. The government hopes that such a system will ensure that the labourers get their pay as mentioned in their employment contract so that the minimum wage standards get implemented everywhere. Officials say the preparation was made after it was found that some schools, hospitals, banks and financial institutions and private firms are paying their staff much lower than the standards set by the governments. When the new provision will come into effect, the employers have to submit details of payments made to the staff when they apply for their registration renewal. Meanwhile, the government is preparing to fix new minimum wage standards to implement from the beginning of next fiscal year, according to the Ministry’s Joint Secretary Krishna Gyawali. Published on May 1st, Tuesday, 2018 10:49 AM 
Kathmandu, April 30 Meteorologists across the South Asia have predicted normal monsoon for this season, giving a sigh of relief to people who suffered a bad devastation in the season last year. South Asian Climate Outlook Forum, an organisation comprising meteorologists and forecasters of different countries, says, “Normal rainfall is most likely during the 2018 southwest monsoon season (June – September) over most parts of South Asia.” However, the organisation says ‘above normal’ rainfall is likely over some areas in east central India and southeastern parts of the region. Below-normal rainfall is likely over some areas of southern, northwestern and northeastern parts of South Asia. The experts had gathered in Pune of India from April 18 to 20 to discuss likely patterns and develop a consensual prediction. The organisation says it issued the predictions based on forecasts from different climate models and expert assessment of prevailing climate conditions such as the El Niño Southern Oscillation (ENSO). Last year, in overall, the seasonal rainfall was near average during the monsoon season. However, many parts of the Indian subcontinent including Nepal were affected by floods in August and September. Published on April 30th, Monday, 2018 3:26 PM 
Butwal, April 30 Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli proposes that a railway network should be built to connect three key locations related to Lord Buddha’s life; namely: his birth place in Lumbini, the headquarters of his father’s kingdom in Tilaurakot and a nearby town in Ramgram where his relics are kept after death. He says the railway network will ensure sustainable tourism in the Lumbini region. Addressing a function organised on the occasion of 2562nd birth anniversary of Lord Buddha in Lumbini today, Oli said, “We will launch a feasibility study soon for the operation of monorail. If the study results will be positive, we will begin construction works.” In another context, the Prime Minister said no rumours should be created about the birth place of Lord Buddha.   Province 5 Chief Minister Shankar Pokhrel had also addressed the function where President Bidya Devi Bhandari was also present as the chief guest. Published on April 30th, Monday, 2018 2:47 PM 
Biratnagar, April 30 At least two persons died when a microbus crashed in Gothgaun-7, Sundarharaincha Municipality-7 of Morang district of eastern Nepal. The vehicle (Ba 4 Kha 6919) was on its way to Kathmandu from Kakarbhitta of neighbouring Jhapa district. The victims have been identified as Uma Niraula (51) and Shyama Karki (52) from Bhadrapur-15 of Jhapa. They had breathed their last while undergoing treatment at Biratnagar-based Golden Hospital, according to the Belbari Area Police Office. Five of the injured are undergoing treatment at the BP Koirala Institute of Health Sciences, three at Golden Hospital and three at another facility in Itahari. Police say the vehicle had hit a tree before it crashed. Further investigation is underway. Published on April 30th, Monday, 2018 12:01 PM 
Kathmandu, April 30 A warning of protests and boycotts from the rival faction led by senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel has forced Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba to put the appointment of party officials on hold for now. Earlier, Deuba had called a meeting of the party’s Central Working Committee members directly elected from its last general convention so as to select Vice-President, General Secretary and Joint General Secretary from among them. However, claiming that Deuba tried to exclude leaders supporting him, Paudel had warned of boycotting the decision. Leaders close to him were preparing not to show up at the meeting. Therefore, to avert possible clashes, Deuba decided to postpone the meeting now. The meeting now has been rescheduled for 2 pm on Friday, according to the party’s Central Office. It had been reported that Deuba was picking Bimalendra Nidhi, Purna Bahadur Khadka and Prakash Sharan Mahat–all belonging to his faction–as Vice-President, General Secretary and Joint General Secretary respectively. Published on April 30th, Monday, 2018 11:22 AM 
Kathmandu, April 30 Whereas drilling in the first natural gas well is still under experiment, the government has taken initiatives to kickstart the second phase of gas extraction in Kathmandu Valley, again in Teku. Prithvi Lal Shrestha, Chief at the Natural Gas Division under the Department of Mines and Geology, procedures have begun for the commercial production and distribution of natural gas. Now, applications from interested contractors have been called for the project, according to him. If the project gives positive results about production and distribution of the fuel, the government will move ahead with the plan; but if the results will be negative, the project will be dropped. If the results are positive, similar tests will be carried out at other 11 stations inside the Valley. Earlier, an experiment done in Imadol of Lalitpur had found that extracting was would be impossible there.   While the government needs to spend around RsÂ  6 million to know if extraction is possible at one place, actual production and distribution will be much expensive. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) had drilled a hole to extract natural gas in Teku of Kathmandu around 35 years ago. The hole, however, has been covered with clay and sand now thanks to negligence. Published on April 30th, Monday, 2018 10:52 AM 
     Birgunj, April 29 The protest by local residents in Birgunj demanding the withdrawal of a decision to hike fees at the Narayani sub-regional Hospital has entered its second day. The Narayarani sub-regional Hospital Development Assistance campaign began protests on Saturday. Members of the campaign have said they will sit-in in front of the hospital for one hour every day until the decision to hike the fees is revoked. The campaigners say that mentally ill patients with limited financial means come to the hospital for treatment and the hospital should not have hiked the fees. They said that following the hike in fees, the public hospital would become as expensive as private ones. The campaigners said they were forced to launch protests after the hospital administration did not heed their demands. The hospital’s mental ailments department had recently hiked fees saying that the fee collected from patients was not enough to run the facility. Published on April 29th, Sunday, 2018 4:30 PM 
 Dadeldhura, April 29 Seven members of wedding procession were injured after a jeep they were riding on turned turtle near Raduwa Khola along the KI Singh Higway in far-western Nepal. According to police, the procession, which started at Nawadurga Gaunpalika-1, Koteli was heading to Ganyapura Gaunpalika on the jeep (Se 1 ja 238). District Police Office Dadeldhura said that the jeep turned turtle on the highway after its brake failed. The injured have been rushed to Dadelhura sub-regional hospital. All injured are reported to be out of danger. Published on April 29th, Sunday, 2018 4:16 PM 
 Pokhara, April 29 Nepali Congress’ members of the Provincial Assembly in Province 4 have elected Krishna Chandra Nepali as their leader in the legislature. Nepali was elected to the post after several rounds of negotiations between the members. The election had been delyaed following a dispute between rival factions of the party. Similarly, Mani Bhadra Sharma Kandel has been elected whip while Om Kala Gautam his assistant. The members have elected Mekhlal Shrestha as the deputy leader and Lalitkala Gurung as the secretary. Nepali said that he will make sure that the government faces tough opposition in the province. “As the federal exercise is new to the country, I would need suggestions and support from everyone,” he said. Published on April 29th, Sunday, 2018 4:03 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 27 Interpol, the International Criminal Police Organisation, has issued a diffusion notice against the leader of a Nepali gold smuggling racket, Chudamani Upreti aka Gore. After 33.5 kg gold that police already confiscated disappeared and a person was killed in connection with this case, an investigation launched by the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Nepal Police has found that Upreti would smuggle gold in cahoots with senior police officials. The probe team suspected that Upreti is currently abroad, therefore Nepal Police recommended Interpol for the diffusion notice. Now, police organisations of 192 counties, which are members of Interpol, will launch a search for Upreti. In the second week of January this year, 33.5 kg gold smuggled to Nepal from the United Arab Emirates had gone missing without reaching its owner. Later, it was found that its mule Sanam Shakya was murdered. Later, the investigation claimed that police, under the request of Upreti, covered details about the murder as well as the smuggling. It is also said that Upreti himself planned the murder. Published on April 27th, Friday, 2018 3:37 PM 
Kathmandu, April 27 India has piled pressure on Nepal to lift an additional customs duty of five per cent that Nepal imposes on import of agricultural products. Nepal, however, has refused to consider the request. In a bid to promote domestic productions, Nepal imposes five per cent additional customs duty on agricultural products to be imported from India and China. The Indian delegation has pressed Nepal to discontinue the duty, at the Inter-government Committee meeting of Commerce Secretaries that began in Kathmandu on Thursday. “But we are not in the condition of withdrawing it. If we remove this duty, the import will surge as Indian products are cheap and the Nepali products’ market will collapse.” During the two-day meeting, officials will discuss policy and technical issues about bilateral trade and commerce. Nepal is presenting proposals on removing obstructions on the export of jute and ginger, and implementation of various bilateral agreements among others.   Published on April 27th, Friday, 2018 3:05 PM 
Kathmandu, April 27 Former prime minister and CPN-UML senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal says he does not agree with the CPN-Maoist Centre’s demand that the two parties should unite on the basis of equality in terms of the number of leaders in the new party’s organisation. “If the UML has 200 leaders [in a committee], why should they also have 200? What is its basis?” Nepal tells Onlinekhabar in an interview, “Let’s look at people’s support and our organisations.” Likewise, the leader says he is not ready to include some leaders never elected in the party into the new party’s structures. Nepal is of the view that the two parties discuss in detail and settle positions of all leaders in the party, but such management should be for the period before the next general convention only. “We should not leave anyone’s future insecure. Everyone’s management should be taken care of,” he says, adding, “But, we cannot assure who will be elected the chairperson in the next general convention.” “We can say nothing about the general convention. Who can say that any person cannot contest the polls?” he questions. Published on April 27th, Friday, 2018 2:33 PM 
Kathmandu, April 27 CPN-Maoist Centre leader Top Bahadur Rayamajhi says the proposed unification between his party and the CPN-UML should incorporate sentiments of the grassroots. Rayamajhi’s statement follows a disruption created by some Maoist Centre cadres during a function the two parties jointly organised on April 22 to mark the establishment of Communist Party of Nepal. The cadres had objected to the banner the UML prepared for the event claiming it did not have a picture of Marx, Lenin and Mao. “What we saw at the function that day suggests that a handful of leaders cannot conclude the unification process. We have now realised that the unification should be done only after understanding sentiments of the grassroots, institutionally,” Rayamajhi tells Onlinekhabar in an interview. The leader clarifies that he is not raising doubts over intentions of the leaders, adding, such mistakes and weaknesses, however, should be corrected. “We need to hold discussions up to the level of leading cadres,” he advises, “It does not mean that anyone is not accepting the need for unification. It just means that such discussions are beneficial for political, ideological and organisational unity.” In another context, he maintains that such problems are natural as two parties are going to be one; therefore the unification process has not stopped now. Published on April 27th, Friday, 2018 12:31 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 27 An Indian national died when a liquefied petroleum gas bullet plunged into Trishuli River from the Prithivi Highway in Dhading district, near Kathmandu, on Friday morning. The 36-year-old Surendra Singh has been identified as the driver of vehicle. He was a permanent resident of Rajouri, Jammu of India. The vehicle (BR55QH 8630) was heading to Kathmandu from a depot in India when it fell off the road into the river in Gajuri Municipality-2 at around 7 am today. The river is just 15 metres down the road. The District Police Office says the victim breathed his last on the spot. Further investigation is underway. Published on April 27th, Friday, 2018 11:12 AM 
Chitwan, April 26 New chief of Nepal Police, IGP Sarbendra Khanal, says he will throw away all ‘bugs’ of his organisation and the mission has already started. By ‘bugs’, he meant officials and personnel who tainted the image of national police organisation. Khanal’s statement follows recent reports about involvement of senior police officials in disappearance of 33.5 kg gold confiscated from smugglers. The top cop said he would reward staff if they worked hard but punish when they failed. Speaking with journalists as he inspected the Chitwan District Police Office today, Khanal said he would carry out investigations and control crime in such a way that people could feel it. “People have already realised some of our jobs,” he said, “Now, the priority is crime control.” In another context, Khanal said the Ministry of Home Affairs was preparing a plan about the management of provincial police organisation. Published on April 26th, Thursday, 2018 4:08 PM 
Kathmandu, April 26 DSP Sanjaya Raut, who was absconding after his involvement was suspected in the reported disappearance of 33.5 kg gold confiscated by police, has finally come into contact. The Ministry of Home Affairs had summoned Raut for statements on Tuesday, but he was incommunicado since then. Later, on Wednesday evening, he came into contact with the probe panel. A source at the panel says he was forced into come into contact after a circular was issued across the country to launch a search operation against him. Earlier on Sunday, police had arrested former DIG Govinda Niraula immediately after his statements. Therefore, Raut chose to flee fearing the arrest, according to the source. It has been learned that Raut has a good rapport with the alleged owner of the gold, Chudamani Upreti aka Gore. Police have already arrested 22 persons in connection with the case whereas 21 are still absconding. Published on April 26th, Thursday, 2018 2:33 PM 
Kathmandu, April 26 The Department of Transport Management is preparing to introduce a new rule about operation and management of taxis in Kathmandu Valley, according to which the vehicles have to introduce online booking system. Likewise, the rule will require that taxis have to provide printed bills to customers after they drop them off. The Department’s preparation is an attempt to respond to complaints galore that taxis in Kathmandu overcharge passengers. Currently, there are few companies which have been providing online booking services. But, the number of cabs they have is too low to meet the demand. The Department’s Director General Rup Narayan Bhattarai says taxis have to place a mark showing that they are taxis. The text has to be in yellow so that no one gets confused. A uniform will also be fixed for taxi drivers, according to him.   Published on April 26th, Thursday, 2018 12:05 PM 
Rautahat, April 26 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says various foreign power centres are plotting against the proposed unification between CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre. He, therefore, called his party’s leaders and cadres to collectively fight against them. Speaking at a function in Rautahat today, the leader, however, said the unification would take place as it was the desire of entire country. People already endorsed it and now they wanted to nourish the unification as their common asset, according to him. “The entire country wants the unification. But, making this process respectful, just and equal is a challenge for us.” The former prime minister claimed that the two parties would finalise all documents related to the unified party by Friday. Published on April 26th, Thursday, 2018 11:39 AM 
 Kathmandu, April 25 Nepal Sports Journalists Forum on Wednesday announced the names of five nominees under People’s Choice categories. The award will be given to one of them based on the number of SMS votes and Facebook likes they receive. The nominees for the People’s Choice category are cricketer Sandeep Lamichhane, footballer Kiran Chemjong, golfer Pratima Sherpa, spiker Man Bahadur Shrestha and table tennis player Syantu Shrestha. Voting has been open from today and it will close at midnight of May 16. The award ceremony has been scheduled for the next afternoon. One of the greatest events of Nepali sports, the annual event provides wards to players and coaches under eight category: Best Male, Bet Female, Best Youth Player, Best Coach, People’s Choice, Paraathlete, Special Award and Life Time Achievement Award. Best Male, Best Female, Best Youth Player and Best Coach will get a motorbike whereas others will get Rs 50,000.       Published on April 25th, Wednesday, 2018 2:34 PM 
Kathmandu, April 25 The National Association of Rural Municipality in Nepal, an organisation representing elected leaders of rural municipality from throughout the country, has warned that the leaders will appoint staff required for their office on their own if the federal government fails to send required human resources at the earliest. The constitution authorises local government bodies to appoint required staff after issuing necessary laws. However, they currently lack financial resources, and hence have to depend on the federal government. “We have already waited for one year,” the Association’s Chairman Hom Narayan Shrestha says, “But, there is no staff management. Now, we will wait for one more month.” Meanwhile, the elected leaders have objected to the government’s order of precedence claiming it made them feel humiliated as they have been put under staff. On the other hand, the order has treated municipality mayors and rural municipality chairpersons differently.     Published on April 25th, Wednesday, 2018 2:11 PM 
Kathmandu, April 25 The government of Nepal has begun a campaign to digitise all financial transactions at government offices. Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada inaugurated the digitisation campaign amidst a function organised at the Ministry today. The system is now available at the Taxpayers’ Office in Thamel in the first phase. Speaking on the occasion, Khatiwada made it clear that carrying out transactions through electronic systems would make the transactions easy. He said it would make the government taxpayer-friendly. He assured that the revenue system would also migrate to the electronic world soon. After that, taxpayers can pay taxes online directly from their bank accounts using mobile phones. He also directed his staff to properly manage the system. The Minister said the government would formulate and implement all necessary laws and regulations for electronic transactions very soon. Revenue Secretary Shishir Kumar Dhungana says the system will be expanded throughout the country within next fiscal year (by 2019 mid-July).   Published on April 25th, Wednesday, 2018 1:33 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 24 More than 2,000 employees are needed to run the country’s judicial system in a full-fledged manner, the apex court says. According to Supreme Court’s spokesperson Narayan Panthi, an organisational management survey conducted by the SC concluded that 6,665 employees were required across the country for the execution justice. Presently, the judiciary is operated by 4,586 people. The SC conducts the survey every ten years. In the past ten years, work load per employee in judiciary has doubled. This has affected the timely delivery of justice. According to Panthi, the SC itself needs more 147 employees, including two secretaries to cope with the work pressure. Presently, it has 452 employees. Panthi said that the Ministry of Federal Affairs and General Administration has been requested to provide employees as per the recommendations made by the survey. Published on April 24th, Tuesday, 2018 8:34 PM 
Chitwan, April 24 CPN-Maoist Centre chief Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ says the new date for the announcement of his party’s merger with the CPN UML will be announced on Friday. Prachanda’s statement comes two days after the establishment day of Nepal Communist Party, the day the two parties had initially planned to announce their merger. Prachanda hinted that the merger announcement could be made on Labour Day. “We have settled all issues related to the merger. But we haven’t had the time to announce the formal merger as both the parties’ leaders have been busy,” Prachanda told reporters at a programme in Bharatpur. “There are no complications. We will reach a conclusion whenever both the chairmen have time,” Prachanda said adding that the two leaders wanted to take their time so that everything is sorted out before the formal announcement. On Indian Prime Minister Modi’s impending visit to Nepal, Prachanda said that high-level exchanges between the two countries will help deepen ties. Published on April 24th, Tuesday, 2018 7:06 PM 
Kathmandu, April 24 Home minister Ram Bahadur Thapa visited the residence of Chief Election Commissioner Ayodhee Prasad Yadav on Tuesday, two days after an improvised explosive device went off near his compound in Hattiban, Lalitpur. Minister Thapa, who was accompanied by Secretary Prem Kumar Rai and IGP Sarvendra Khanal, told Yadav that the government was committed to providing security to commission officials. He also directed police personnel deployed at Yadav’s residence to provide maximum security to the Chief Election Commissioner. Police are yet to arrest the people involved in the explosion. Thapa said that police had reached closed to the perpetrators and they would be arrested soon. Published on April 24th, Tuesday, 2018 6:56 PM 
   Kathmandu, April 24 Nepal has been elected by acclamation as Chair of the Committee on Conferences, a permanent organ of the United Nations General Assembly, for 2018. Nepal has served as a member of this committee several times and a few times in its bureau, on behalf of the Asia-Pacific Group, and this is the first time that Nepal has been entrusted to chair the committee. According to the Nepali mission in New York, the President of the General Assembly had chosen six Member States from the Asia-Pacific region, including Nepal as a member of the Committee earlier this year for a three-year term of 2018-2020. In the committee of 21, the representatives of Hungary, Guyana and the United States were elected as vice-chairs while Liberia was elected Rapporteur. Nirmal Raj Kafle, Minister Plenipotentiary and the Deputy Permanent Representative, Permanent Mission of Nepal to the United Nations, will act as chair of the committee on behalf of Nepal. “This is yet another opportunity for Nepal to further contribute to this multilateral platform,” the mission said in a statement. The committee, which was established by the UNGA on December 18, 1974, advises the UNGA on all matters pertaining to the organisation of UN Conferences and meetings, including their planning and coordination in close consultations with the UN Secretariat and all other stakeholders. Published on April 24th, Tuesday, 2018 12:33 PM 
Kathmandu, April 23 Prime Minister and CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli has criticised Nepali Congress President and main opposition leader Sher Bahadur Deuba for calling his India trip submissive. Addressing a function organised at his party headquarters in Dhumbarahi of Kathmandu today, Oli said Deuba did not know what the word ‘submissiveness’ mean. A sarcastic Oli said, “There are some people in Nepal… Maybe some people had termed someone’s India visit submissive. But now, he thought every prime minister’s India tour should be called the same.” “And, there are poor cadres who are forced to repeat what their party President says.” When Deuba paid a visit to India as the Prime Minister in August 2017, Oli’s UML had said he presented himself as submissive in front of Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. According to Oli, Deuba’s logic was ludicrous and the whole world laughed at him. In another context, he said he was accused of being authoritarian when he talked about developing the country and making it prosperous.   Published on April 23rd, Monday, 2018 3:28 PM 
Biratnagar, April 23 Police in Biratnagar of Morang district on Monday say they have arrested two persons for their alleged involvement in planting an explosive targeting the field office of Indian Embassy here last week. Police have caught 42-year-old Uday Rai aka Yugen and 34-year-old Bhim Limbu. They were paraded at a press conference today. According the police, Rai is the District Secretary of Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led CPN, a communist outfit that has been occasionally carrying out violent activities in many parts of the country. They were caught by the law enforcers in Biratnagar-01 on Sunday evening, said Chief of the District Police Office, Arun Kumar BC, who further added that they were on the lookout for others involved in the explosion. The blast had destroyed the compound wall of the building in Biratnagar Metropolitan City-13. Published on April 23rd, Monday, 2018 2:49 PM 
Kathmandu, April 23 The internal rift in Nepali Congress-aligned Nepal Students Union has reached its peak on Monday as five of 11 vice-chairpersons of the organisation have filed a complaint with the party President Sher Bahadur Deuba against their organisation’s President Nain Singh Mahar. Prakash Rana, Khadka Bahadur Dangi, Urmila Thapaliya, Nabin Rai and Sagar Pariyar have also put forth three demands and served a 24-hour ultimatum to meet them. The first demand is finalising a date for the next general convention of the organisation to elect its new leadership. They say they will resort to stronger forms of protest including carrying out parallel organisational activities if the demands are not met. Meanwhile, the disgruntled leaders are also preparing to stage a demonstration at the party’s central office in Sanepa, where the party is holding its Central Working Committee meeting.   Published on April 23rd, Monday, 2018 12:02 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 23 Water resource officials of Nepal and India have launched a meeting in Kathmandu on Monday to discuss next steps for the implementation of Pancheshwor Multipurpose Project in far-western Nepal. More than two decades ago, the two countries had jointly devised the plan and it was agreed that India would invest in it.Â However, the project has not been implemented till the date. The meeting will try to find a common understanding about the policy and programme of Pancheshwor Development Authority and other financial issues, according to officials. “We have set the agenda for discussing and finding an agreement on other administrative and legal issues too,” according to the Authority’s Chief Executive Officer Mahendra Gurung.’ Currently, the two government have different opinions about the detailed project report of the project. Meanwhile, the meeting is also likely to fix the date for a similar meeting again. Earlier, it was expected that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli during his recent visit to New Delhi would talk with India for the project implementation. However, it could not take place.   Published on April 23rd, Monday, 2018 11:34 AM 
Kathmandu, April 23 Whereas Indian Chief Justice Dipak Mishra has faced an impeachment motion by opposition parties for meeting political leaders recently, Nepal’s acting Chief Justice Deepak Raj Joshee is found to have been meeting political leaders pressing them to appoint him as the Chief Justice at the earliest. After the retirement of then Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli, Joshi has taken over the rein as the acting Chief Justice in March. He is expecting the appointment as full-fledged Chief Justice soon. However, the Constitutional Council headed by the Prime Minister has delayed his appointment. In addition, the Federal Parliament is yet to form the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee. In this context, Joshee recently met ruling coalition partner CPN-Maoist Centre’s Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal at his residence in Khumaltar of Lalitpur, requesting him to expedite the process, according to a source. Meanwhile, legal experts have objected to Joshee’s reported meeting with Dahal. “It is disappointing that the recommendation for the Chief Justice’s appointment is taking a long time,” constitutional expert Bhimarjun Acharya says, “But, a justice meeting leaders at such times is more disappointing.” Acharya says politicians should also refrain them from meeting justices. “If it continues,” he questions, “Where will we find dignity and independence of judiciary?”   Published on April 23rd, Monday, 2018 11:19 AM 
Kathmandu, April 22 The Department of Transport Management has warned that it will scrap the route permit issues to transport entrepreneurs if they resort to any strike demanding that they be allowed to practise their transport cartels. The government warning follows a decision of transport entrepreneurs’ organisations to launch an indefinite strike in May if the government does not correct its decision to stop entrepreneurs’ committees’ registration and renewal as NGOs. Meanwhile, the Department has called police and members of the civil society to collect and record details about the transporters who organise a strike in the emergency service sector. The Department’s Director General Rup Narayan Bhattarai says the government has adoptedÂ  zero tolerance policy against syndicates and cartels. “We will scrap the route permit on the very first day as directed by the law. The home administration and consumer right activists will inform us about such events,” he said adding strike in emergency service is considered a crime, hence they will face other actions too.   Published on April 22nd, Sunday, 2018 1:08 PM 
Sindhupalchok, April 22 Minister for Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation Barsha Man Pun says Nepal will produce 10,000 megawatt power in next 10 years. He says the government has adopted the plan of expanding electricity generation and is currently implementing it effectively. Speaking at a function organised to inaugurate a solar life water plan in Sirubari of Sindhupalchok district today, the Minister said solar energy would also contribute to the overall power production in the country. He added that multipurpose projects would be the priority of government. Nepal Electricity Authority’s Managing Director Kul Man Ghising and Province 3 Social Development Minister Yubaraj Dulal also spoke of the need of making people independent on energy during the function.   Published on April 22nd, Sunday, 2018 12:53 PM 
Kathmandu, April 22 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba is preparing is nominate officials of his party including one vice-president, one general secretary and one joint general secretary during the ongoing Central Working Committee meeting today. The meeting which was halted halfway on April 1 to mourn for its deceased leader Khum Bahadur Khadka is resuming today. Earlier, the meeting was called for Friday, but it was postponed for today as many members including senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel could not come to Kathmandu owing to an obstruction at the Tribhuvan International Airport. The party statute has it that the President appoints officials from among elected CWC members within two months from the general convention. However, it has already been two years since the party held its 13th national general convention. It is likely that Bimalendra Nidhi, Purna Bahadur Khadka and Prakash Sharan Mahat will be appointed vice-president, general secretary and joint general secretary respectively. Gopal Man Shrestha and Bijaya Kumar Gachhadar have also laid claim over the vice-presidency. Published on April 22nd, Sunday, 2018 12:13 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 20 Nepal have confirmed their participation in the regional qualifiers for the ICC World T20 Australia 2020. Nepal have been drawn in Group B of Asia region as the International Cricket Council on Friday published the list of 62 teams contesting for the qualification. The 62 teams have been divided into 12 regional groups and Nepal’s Group B Asia includes seven teams. Bhutan, China, Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore and Thailand are other teams in the group. Their qualifying matches will be held between October 3 and 12, 2018 in Malaysia and top three teams will qualify for Asia Final in 2019 before reaching the qualification point for the CC World T20 Australia 2020. Three winning teams of Asia Final will qualify for the qualifiers of World T20 2020. The men’s ICC World T20 2020 will take place in Australia between October 18 and November 15, 2020. Published on April 20th, Friday, 2018 3:16 PM 
Kathmandu, April 20 The Election Commission says it will hold a byelection for the Province 4 Assembly position representing Manang B as the lawmaker elected here, Deepak Manange, has been convicted of attempted murder and subsequently sent to jail. The Commission says the position has turned automatically vacant with the conviction and imprisonment of lawmaker. The constitutional body’s spokesperson Nawaraj Dhakal, however, clarifies that the Assembly should write to it officially informing the imprisonment whereas the federal government has to fix a date for the election before the Commission officially begins preparations for the poll. Meanwhile, Dhakal adds that Manange cannot contest any election anymore as the election laws forbid convicts of criminal cases to run for legislative positions. In fact, Manange’s candidacy for the election held last year should have been rejected, but he managed to run and win as no one noticed his conviction. Published on April 20th, Friday, 2018 2:37 PM 
Kathmandu, April 20 The Central Working Committee meeting of main opposition Nepali Congress, scheduled to resume on Friday morning, has been postponed. The party has cited flight obstructions at the Tribhuvan International Airport this morning as the reason behind the postponement. The Airport had shut its runway for around 12 hours from last night as an aircraft belonging to Malindo Air suffered a runway excursion before it was about to take off for Malaysia. The meeting was postponed as many of its CWC members including senior leader Ram Chandra Paudel could not arrive in Kathmandu on time, the party source informs. Paudel was in Pokhara along with six other CWC members. Therefore, he had requested the party President Sher Bahadur Deuba to postpone the meeting. The meeting was expected to appoint Vice-President, General Secretary and Joint General Secretary of the party. Now, the meeting shall take place on Sunday morning. Published on April 20th, Friday, 2018 2:17 PM 
Kathmandu, April 20 Tribhuvan International Airport, the sole airport handling international flights from and to Nepal, says it will resume flight operations from 11:30 am today, almost 12 hours after it closed the functioning. An aircraft belonging to Malaysia’s Malindo Air had veered off the runway onto the grassland on Thursday night, thereby affecting all domestic and international flights. Chief of the Airport, Raj Kumar Chhetri, informs Onlinekhabar that the operation has been possible after the aircraft has been removed from the ground. The aircraft now has been taken to a parking bay via the runway. The aeroplane was about to take off the Kathmandu airport with 139 passengers including the cabin crew when it got into the excursion last night.   The incident has not caused any human casualty. Published on April 20th, Friday, 2018 11:17 AM 
Kathmandu, April 19 Nepali Congress leader Prakash Sharan Mahat, one of the confidants of party President Sher Bahadur Deuba, says the next meeting of his party’s Central Working Committee will appoint the party’s Vice-President, General Secretary and Joint General Secretary. The meeting which was halted halfway on April 1 to mourn for its deceased leader Khum Bahadur Khadka is resuming tomorrow. “The President will appoint officials very soon,” Mahat told journalists at an interaction today, “It has already been late. It should have been done quite earlier to activate the organisation. But, it will be done soon.” On the other hand, he also added that the party would call its powerful Mahasamiti meeting soon so as to make amendments to the party statute so that it will have the party structure in line with the newly adopted federal setup. A confident Mahat said his party would focus on regaining its power in next five years so that it would get a support of at least 45 per cent voters in next parliamentary elections. Published on April 19th, Thursday, 2018 3:58 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 19 India, which earlier had decided to purchase electricity produced from Nepali projects only if they had Indian investments, has hinted that it could rethink the decision and would be open to buy power form all projects here. Though Nepal imports electricity from India during the dry season, it hopes to produce surplus power in the monsoon and sell it to India. Further, dozens of projects with a capacity of 1,594 megawatt are under-construction here whereas projects with 6,000 megawatt capacity are in the pipeline. During a meeting between energy secretaries of two countries held earlier this week in India, New Delhi was positive about considering Nepal’s request for revision on the decision, according to Nepal Electricity Authority spokesperson Prabal Adhikari. On the occasion, India also informed that it was reviewing its inter-country electricity trade guideline and rules, according to him. Meanwhile, the Indian side also told Nepali delegation led by Energy Secretary Anup Upadhyaya that India’s electricity system would get balanced if Nepal implemented the proposed energy banking system. However, launching this system requires a lot of study on both sides, according to officials. Published on April 19th, Thursday, 2018 3:30 PM 
Kathmandu, April 19 Nepal’s national cricket team member Anil Kumar Sah has been selected for the Singapore Cricket Association’s Elite Player T20 Series to be held from May 1 to 5. Sah has got affiliated to SG Crimsons, one of the three participating teams. Other teams include SG Crescents and SG Stars. Each team will play four games in the group state. The event targets improving skills of U-19 and selected senior players of Singapore. If players perform well in the event, they are more likely to be picked for the national team. Some players from Zimbabwe, Thailand and Indonesia have also been selected along with Sah.   Published on April 19th, Thursday, 2018 12:02 PM 
Kathmandu, April 19 Police on Thursday morning arrested 11 persons from Bhaktapur after they reportedly pelted stones at police providing security to the community celebrating the annual festival of Bisket Jatra. It has been reported that a group from the revellers themselves had attacked police at local Taumadichok around 2:15 am today. Following the incident, police arrested 11 persons on the charge of attacking police, and carrying out other anarchic activities, according to Police Inspector Madan KC of the Metropolitan Police Range in Bhaktapur. Earlier, on Wednesday, police had arrested two persons on the charge of brandishing khukuris at the celebration venues, thereby threatening peace and order. Further investigation is underway.     Published on April 19th, Thursday, 2018 11:23 AM 
Kathmandu, April 19 Ruling CPN-UML’s youth wing, Youth Association Nepal, has elected Ramesh Paudel as its chairperson. After incumbent Rajeev Pahari resigned from the position owing to his busy schedule after being elected to the Province 4 Assembly, the organisation elected Paudel as Pahari’s successor. A Central Committee meeting of organisation concluded this morning elected Paudel. Earlier, he was a vice-chairperson in YAN. Another vice-chairperson Dilu Panta has also laid her claim to the position, but she failed. Meanwhile, Kiran Paudel, Prabhat Bikram Katuwal, Kanti Burlakoti, Hasta Shahi, Parshuram Basnet, Govinda Thapa and Chandra Lama have been elected vice-chairpersons. Naresh Shahi is the new general secretary. Hasta Shahi, Kanti Burlakoti and Naresh Shahi belong to the Madhav Kumar Nepal faction of the party whereas other officials are loyal to party Chairman KP Sharma Oli.       The meeting also elected 13 secretaries, one treasurer, and chiefs of discipline commission, audit commission and central office department. Published on April 19th, Thursday, 2018 10:22 AM 
Chitwan, April 18 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says he will hold ‘serious negotiation’ with CPN-UML Chairman and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli about contentious issues that are blocking the proposed unification between them. A day after their talks failed to settle the issues, Dahal in his home district today said the unification was certain. Though the announcement would not take place on April 22 as planned initially due to technical constraints, the merger would be announced by mid-May, according to him. In another context, he said ministers representing his party expressed their objections to the Prime Minister’s decision making approach as Oli could not rightly coordinate with them. However, they would not go against the Prime Minister’s decision in the prime ministerial government system, according to him. Dahal came to the district today to attend a function organised to mark a student enrolment campaign for a local school. Published on April 18th, Wednesday, 2018 2:18 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 18 The official draw for the 2018 SAFF Suzuki Cup has been announced in Dhaka of Bangladesh on Wednesday, according to which Nepal will play in Group A. Bangladesh, Pakistan and Bhutan are other teams in the group. The Group B includes India, Maldives and Sri Lanka. The 12th edition of tournament will take place in Dhaka from September 4. India are the defending champions and have claimed the title a record seven times. Published on April 18th, Wednesday, 2018 12:45 PM 
Kathmandu, April 18 The government of Nepal on Tuesday endorsed its new Internal Security Coordination Directive, requiring chief district officers to work under provincial governments. The CDOs used to be considered the most powerful official of the district as they used to have a direct access to the Ministry of Home Affairs of the federal government. They had been demanding that their rights and responsibilities remain intact even in the new federal administrative structure. But, the government did not heed them. Therefore, now onwards, they will report to and get assignments from provincial Ministry of Internal Affairs. Likewise, intelligence staff of the National Investigation Department should also be accountable to provincial governments. Meanwhile, the Directive has a provision for the formation of a Provincial Security Coordination Committee under the leadership of Internal Affairs Minister in every province. The Committee will be responsible for overall management of day-to-day security.     Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa had tabled the proposal for endorsement of the Guideline during the Cabinet meeting yesterday. Published on April 18th, Wednesday, 2018 12:29 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 17 Nepal has been elected a member of the Executive Board of the UN Women, the United Nations agency for gender equality and women empowerment. This is the first time that Nepal has made it to the UN Women since its establishment in 2010. Nepal’s term in the UN Women will be from 2019 to 2021. Other countries including India, Bangladesh, Mongolia and Saudi Arabia have already become member of the UN Women. Likewise, Nepal has been elected member of the United Nations Commission on the Science and Technology for Development. Its term in the Commission will be three years. Other members from the Asia Pacific Region include China, Thailand and Iran. Nepal got 52 out of 53 valid votes cast by 54 members of the Coordination and Management Meeting of the Economic and Social Council, according to a press note released by the UN. RSS Published on April 17th, Tuesday, 2018 3:50 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 17 The International Cricket Council has welcomed the decision of elected committee of Cricket Association of Nepal (CAN) to hold a special general meeting later this week to consider various changes in its statute in a bid to end the international governing body’s suspension on Nepal cricket. Earlier, the Chatur Bahadur Chand-led committee has decided to hold the meeting this Thursday and Friday. “The ICC has welcomed confirmation from the Cricket Association of Nepal (CAN) of a Special General Meeting (SGM) to be held on 19-20 April to consider constitutional change that will reform governance of the sport and pave the way towards reinstatement of ICC membership,” the ICC statement issued today reads, “The SGM will consider proposed changes to the constitution that have been recommended by the Nepal Advisory Group (NAG), comprising stakeholders from across the game in Nepal and set up by the ICC.” Adopting the changes will enable CAN to move towards meeting the reinstatement conditions set out by the ICC in May 2016. Meanwhile, the Chand-led committee organised a press conference in Kathmandu to inform that it was flexible about proposed changes if it would lift the suspension. Published on April 17th, Tuesday, 2018 3:12 PM 
Kathmandu, April 17 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba has demanded that Hetaunda be retained as the capital of Province 3. Deuba says the Provincial Assembly should not bring discussions about relocating the capital for now. His statement follows a number of proposals registered at the Assembly demanding either Kavre or Nuwakot be made the capital. But, Deuba held a meeting with Chief Minister Dormani Paudel in Hetaunda today to press him against likely discussions in the provincial legislature body. Earlier, a House of Representatives member form the UML, Birod Khatiwada, and Makawanpur District Coordination Committee Chief Raghunath Khanal had requested Deuba to take initiatives as the main opposition leader to continue the capital status of Hetaunda. Earlier, Deuba-led government had decided Hetaunda to the temporary provincial capital. Published on April 17th, Tuesday, 2018 2:44 PM 
Biratnagar, April 17 An unidentified group on Monday evening planted an explosive targeting the field office of Indian Embassy in Biratnagar of Morang district. Chief of the District Police Office, Arun Kumar BC, informs that the explosion was reported outside the office at around 8:30 pm yesterday. The blast destroyed the compound wall of the building in Biratnagar Metropolitan City-13. Though police are yet to identify the persons involved in the attack, they have suspected Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led CPN’s hand in the incident. Earlier, the Biplav-led party and few other communist outfits had demanded that the field office be removed.   India had established the office in Biratnagar for security check of Nepalis entering India after a flood in Saptakoshi in the monsoon of 2008 created a havoc in eastern Nepal. Published on April 17th, Tuesday, 2018 11:37 AM 
Kathmandu, April 17 Top leaders of the CPN-UML and the CPN-Maoist Centre are holding a meeting at the Prime Minister’s official residence in Baluwatar to discuss key contentious issues blocking the proposed unification of two parties. The two parties have agreed to announce the long-awaited merger on April 22. However, they have disagreements on three key issues including whether to mention ‘people’s war’ in the party statute, what the election symbol will be and what the ratio of two parties in the unified central committee will be. This meeting of Party Unification Coordination Committee is expected to settle all the issues and make the unification certain. Chairman KP Sharma Oli, senior leader Madhav Kumar Nepal, Vice-Chairman Bamdev Gautam and General Secretary Ishwar Pokharel from the UML and Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal, senior leaders Narayan Kaji Shrestha and Ram Bahadur Thapa from the Maoist Centre are members of the committee. Published on April 17th, Tuesday, 2018 10:47 AM 
Kathmandu, April 16 The main opposition party Nepali Congress says its Central Working Committee meeting that was halted halfway on April 1 will resume this Friday, April 20. The meeting was discontinued to mourn for the party leader Khum Bahadur Khadka. The party’s Central Office Chief Secretary Krishna Prasad Paudyal says the meeting called by party President Sher Bahadur Deuba will now resume at 11 am at the Central Office in Sanepa of Lalitpur. The meeting had begun on March 23 with the agenda of reviewing partyâ€™s performance in recent provincial and federal parliamentary elections. Many CWC members are yet to express their opinions about the issue in the meeting. Published on April 16th, Monday, 2018 3:48 PM 
Kathmandu, April 16 Nine student unions affiliated to various political parties have warned of launching a stern protest demanding that private schools which have hiked their fee for the new academic session withdraw the decision. The unions say they will submit a memorandum to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Tuesday demanding an effective implementation of the School Fee Determination Directive. They unions have planned to serve a 72-hour ultimatum. If their demand is not met by then, they will announce other protest programmes. Meanwhile, the unions have demanded that the government implement past agreements signed between the government and student unions. The student leaders, however, say they will not affect teaching learning activities.   The unions had held a joint meeting at the Nepal Students Union office today to decide the protest programmes. Published on April 16th, Monday, 2018 12:37 PM 
Kathmandu, April 16 CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli has called a meeting of the party’s Standing Committee as the party’s plan to merge with the CPN-Maoist Centre has been pushed into limbo. The two communist parties had announced that they will unify the parties on April 22. However, they are yet to find agreements on key issues of the unified party. Of late, a serious trust deficit between the two leaders has been reported. Therefore, it is expected that the meeting of powerful committee would make an appropriate headway. UML Central Office Secretary Krishna Gopal Shrestha says the meeting will take place at 5 pm today. Meanwhile, Oli is holding a meeting with the Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal at his official residence in Baluwatar today. Published on April 16th, Monday, 2018 11:52 AM 
Kathmandu, April 16 Nepal’s Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali is flying to Beijing of China on Monday. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its official statement says Gyawali is paying the visit to the northern neighbour upon an invitation of his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi. During the visit, he will also hold bilateral talks with various leaders. However, it is believed that the trip is meant to prepare the ground for Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s visit to China. The two sides are yet to confirm any date, but Oli is planning to visit China at the earliest. It is expected that both the sides will announce the date after Gyawali returns home on April 21. Likewise, the Minister with the Chinese leadership may discuss the long-awaited visit of Chinese President Xi Jinping to Nepal. Meanwhile, Gyawali is hosting a press meet to share his agendas for the trip this afternoon. Published on April 16th, Monday, 2018 10:35 AM 
Kathmandu, April 15 A man in Bode of Bhaktapur district has pierced his tongue for the sixth time, on Sunday, the second day of Nepali New Year, continuing centuries-old tradition of his community. As a part of annual Jibro Chhedne Jatra (Tongue-piercing Carnival) of the ancient city, Buddha Krishna Baga Shrestha (46) pierced his tongue. He had pierced his tongue every year from 2005 to 2008 and last year. A volunteer from the Shrestha family gets his tongue pierced in a spiritual trance with an iron spike and walks around the town shouldering a round bamboo rack with flaming torches. It is believed that the successful completion of this painful rite brings good fortune to the villagers and the volunteer himself. Published on April 15th, Sunday, 2018 3:23 PM 
Kathmandu, April 15 The government of Nepal has called its citizens to sponsor school education of at least one child outside their family if they can. The call apparently tires to support the government bid to make primary education compulsory and free. Ministry for Education, Science and Technology Giriraj Mani Pokharel, organising a press conference in Kathmandu today, says the new call is a part of the government’s annual student enrolment campaign. Pokharel adds that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has already enrolled a child from Mugu district of Karnali region. He will also sponsor another child from Siraha district. If one wishes to sponsor the child’s education at a government- or community-run school, they have to spend around Rs 6,000 a year. They, however, also can choose to send the kids to private schools , but it will cost them more. The sponsor has to pay for the child’s stationery, uniform and snacks.   Published on April 15th, Sunday, 2018 2:52 PM 
Kathmandu, April 15 The under-construction underpass at Kalanki Chok of Kathmandu is likely to achieve its breakthrough in next one month. However, it will take few more months to do post-construction works so that the structure will be ready to use. It will be Nepal’s first underground road ever. The Ring Road Expansion Project, which is constructing the underpass says the finishing will take around three months. After around 3.5 months, the Project will expire. However, it is unlikely to meet the deadline. In that case, the government will extend the term. Around 93 per cent works under the Project has been over now, according to Bhandari. The Chinese government extended a grant of Rs 5 billion for the project.   Published on April 15th, Sunday, 2018 2:34 PM 
Kathmandu, April 13 Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli inspected the Dhorpatan Hunting Reserve on Friday.
Oli was accompanied by his Defense Minister Ishwar Pokharel and Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Minister Rabindra Adhikari.
Following the visit, PM Oli interacted with the locals and shared that a hydro project would be constructed without encroaching upon the reserve.
He added that 1,000 MW power could be generated from Uttarganga Reservoir, but the project should not affect the settlement and beauty of the locality.
Tourism Minister Adhikari said the Dhorpatan Hunting Reserve is the only hunting reserve in Nepal and one of the best tourism destinations of Province-4.   RSS Published on April 13th, Friday, 2018 8:36 PM 
Kathmandu, April 13 Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Gyawali is paying an official visit to China from April 16 to 21 upon the invitation of State Councilor and Minister of Foreign Affairs of China Wang Yi. The Foreign Ministry Friday said on Friday that during the visit, Minister Gyawali is scheduled to hold bilateral meeting with his Chinese counterpart Wang on 18 April, which will be followed by a joint press address. The Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister will host a luncheon in honour of Minister Gyawali. During his stay in Beijing, Minister Gyawali will meet the state leader of China, and address a round table meeting of Chinese think tanks.
The Nepali to China is to host a welcome reception in honour of the Foreign Minister and his delegation on April 17.
Gyawali will visit Chengdu City of the Sichuan Province of China, and meetÂ  provincial leaders and address a programme at Sichuan University on April 20.
The Nepali delegation comprises Ambassador of Nepal to China Leela Mani Paudyal, and senior officials of the Foreign Ministry and the Embassy.
Minister Gyawali returns home on April 21. Published on April 13th, Friday, 2018 7:17 PM 
 After seven weeks of training, 25 girls from different parts of Nepal took part in this year’s Miss Nepal competition held at Annapurna Hotel on Wednesday. It was a fierce competition between the them out of which one girl’s dream of becoming Miss Nepal came true. Shrinkhala Khatiwada won the prestigious title of Miss World Nepal whereas Manita Devkota was announced Miss Universe Nepal. Along with the two, Ronali Amatya was declared Miss Nepal International and Priya Sigdel won the title of Miss Nepal Earth. All the winners will represent Nepal in international events this year and their lives will forever change. All four pledged to honour and respect the title they have been given and have promised to work hard to fly Nepal’s flag high when taking part in international competitions. Khatiwada, from Hetaunda, also won two more titles — Miss Beautiful Hair and Yamaha Miss Fascino. When asked about what she dreamt about before going to bed last night she says he doesn’t dream with her eyes closed. “I believe in dreaming with my eyes open and I dreamt of winning this crown with my eyes open and to win it I think I worked really hard,” she says. She further added that she and all the winners would be representing Nepali women. She thinks that she won the crown because of the work she plans to do. She’s an architect by profession and feels that the judges were convinced about what she would do after winning the title. Khatiwada is the daughter of a communist Minister and when asked what she felt about communist’s opinion having changed against the pageant. She calmly says, “I feel it’s a positive thing. People have a wrong impression that Miss Nepal objectifies women but I feel it empowers them. A lot of people know us because of this competition and it gives us a platform to do good in the society.” But how has the competition impacted her as a person? She says that before taking part in this competition, she was just an ordinary girl but now she’s got a new identity. “I am Miss Nepal now. I will be representing Nepal at the international stage. I think its a huge achievement on my part.” But Nepal hasn’t won any international pageants it has taken part in. The best was to reach the top five in Miss World. She thinks it’s not because the contestants are weak. “It’s a tough competition and Nepal I feel in the shadows. Our passport isn’t very strong either and I think these small things play an important part. Plus the government doesn’t support us as much as they should. We are ambassadors who represent Nepal in the world stage maybe if we had proper support I think we would have won by now.” She has promised to give it her all and work very hard to win the title. For her future plans, she’s got it all planned. Even though she comes from a political family she has no intentions to join politics. “I’m an architect and in the future, I want to be a world renowned architect but before that wants to work here in Nepal and help the people in need especially those affected by the earthquake.” Published on April 13th, Friday, 2018 7:07 PM 
Kathmandu, April 13 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Friday heads to Mugu, from where he is to address the nation on the occasion of the Nepali New Year on Saturday. According to the Prime Minister’s Office, Oli will address the nation from the picturesque Rara Lake in Mugu and inaugurate the Rara Tourism Year. He will also visit the Dhorpatan area in Baglung and stay the night in Dunai, Dolpa. In Mugu, he will also inaugurate the school enrollment programme. Published on April 13th, Friday, 2018 12:20 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 13 Former Prime Minister and coordinator of Nayas Shakti Party Baburm Bhattarai heads to India on Friday. According to the party, Bhattarai will be accompanied by his wife and former minister Hishila Yami and father Bhoj Prasad Bhattarai. The party said that Bhattarai will attend a meeting of Nepalis in diaspora in Bangalore and discuss their problems, He is also to travel to New Delhi, Mumbai and Tamil Nadu. Bhattarai will accompany his 88-year-old father to the Hindu shrines of Rameshwaram and Dwarkadham, the party said. He will return home next week. Published on April 13th, Friday, 2018 11:07 AM 
 Kathmandu, April 12 A German national reportedly died in Gosainkunda Rural Municipality-4 of Rasuwa district on Wednesday. The District Police Office informs that 49-year-old  Nils Jäkel  (Passport number: C3T8RNL97) from Rostock of Germany died while returning from a mountainous region at around 6:30 pm yesterday. He was accompanied by three Germans and three Britishers. They have suspected that Jäkel had a heart attack, according to Prakash Simkhada, Managing Director of Kathmandu-based Google Trek. Simkhada’s company had taken the team to Langtang for the trekking. Meanwhile, the body has been taken to Kathmandu, but the postmortem is yet to conducted, according to Simkhada. Published on April 12th, Thursday, 2018 4:26 PM 
Kathmandu, April 12 Police in Kathmandu say they have arrested two Nepali citizens in possession of banned Indian banknotes worth Rs 4.9 million. Sunil Dev Baishya (53) from Katahari Rural Municipality-3 of Morang and Chet Bahadur Nepali (50) from Shivapuri Rural Municipality-5 of Nuwakot district were arrested from a hotel in Lazimpat of Kathmandu. Police confiscated from them Indian notes of denomination Rs 500 and Rs 1,000. The Indian government had banned the notes in November 2016. Acting on a tip-off that they were smuggling the currently from border areas to Kathmandu, the Metropolitan Police Range in Kathmandu had raided the hotel. During the raid, police found that they were carrying 2,206 notes of Rs 1,000 and 5,451 notes of Rs 500. Published on April 12th, Thursday, 2018 2:50 PM 
Biratnagar, April 12 Police in Morang district say they have arrested two more persons in connection with a firing attack on Hindu spiritual leader, Acharya Shreeniwas in Biratnagar of Morang in the wee hours on Sunday. Whereas two persons were arrested on the same day of the incident, police nabbed two more on Wednesday evening. Identity of the suspects has not been revealed yet for investigation purposed. However, it has been learned that two of them are from Morang district, and one each from neighbouring Jhapa and Sunsari districts. “We are critically examining the case,” Chief of the District Police Office, SP Arun Kumar BS says, “We will make public our findings once we access the truth.” An unidentified gang had opened fire on the spiritual leader at around 2 am on Sunday. He is currently undergoing treatment at the Neuro Hospital in Biratnagar. Published on April 12th, Thursday, 2018 12:58 PM 
Pokhara, April 12 Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari says he is determined to implement the ambitious 100-day plan that he has introduced in order to reform sectors his ministry is responsible for. “After I have been appointed the Minister,” he says, “We are expediting infrastructural development projects. We are also carrying out reconstruction activities at heritage sites. Just taken an example of Rani Pokhari. We have resolved all disputes.” In an interview with Onlinekhabar in his home town of Pokhara, Adhikari also claims that he is meeting stakeholders including development partners like Asian Development Bank and contractors in order to clear roadblocks seen on the projects. “The disputes do not end without doing anything. We must hold dialogues and discussions.” He informs that he has also noticed traditional working style of staff and lack of vision and hard work in them. Therefore, he will also address these concerns too. “As I had committed, I am also solving problems of the Tribhuvan International Airport gradually,” he says, “You will see the results in next 10 days.” In another context, the Minister who represents Kaski district in the House of Representatives says he also has another plan to promote tourism activities in Pokhara, which has already been established as a tourism capital of the country. Published on April 12th, Thursday, 2018 12:10 PM 
Kathmandu, April 11 Minister for Education, Science and Technology Giriraj Mani Pokharel has called all government employees including teachers of government schools and all people holding public offices to enroll their children at government schools, and not the private ones. Minsiter Pokharel made the call as he made public his plan of action. Meanwhile, the plan of action promises to make the country literate within next two years. Likewise, at least one residential school providing education in local mother tongue will be established in each province. School curricula will be updated. Similarly, integrated curricula will be developed for grades I-III.   Published on April 11th, Wednesday, 2018 3:16 PM 
Kathmandu, April 11 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has directed officials and contractors to complete the construction ofÂ  Upper Tamakoshi Hydropower Project on time. After being reported that the 456-megawatt project is likely to miss its deadline, Prime Minister Oli and Energy Minister Barsha Man Pun visited the project location in Dolakha district today. During the visit, Oli also said, “If this project will not be complete on time, its indirect losses will be far greater than direct ones. Therefore, please don’t pass the buck on others. Complete the project on time, anyhow.” Likewise, Minister Pun said he would like to see the project completed before other national pride projects. Nepal Electricity Authority Managing Director Kul Man Ghising said the project would save Rs 18 billion money which is currently being spent to by power from India. The fresh project deadline is December 2018. Though the cost was initially estimated at Rs 35.3 billion in the beginning, it now has reached Rs 49.29 billion.   Published on April 11th, Wednesday, 2018 2:31 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 11 Police on Wednesday arrested 29 persons from the Department of Foreign Employment premises accusing them of working as brokers and middlemen, and defrauding youth aspiring to work abroad. Total 26 men and three women were arrested on the charge of overcharging people who were going abroad and blocking them from directly accessing services and sections of the Department. Police said they made the arrest acting upon complaints of their unlawful interference. DSP Mohan Kumar Thapa, spokesperson at the Metropolitan Police Range, Kathmandu, says police are further investigating into them. Published on April 11th, Wednesday, 2018 2:11 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 10 The government has appointed Sarbendra Khanal as Inspector General of Nepal Police. Khanal succeeds IGP Prakash Aryal, who retires from the post on Tuesday. A meeting of the Cabinet took the decision on Tuesday evening. DIGs Ramesh Kharel and Pushkar Karki were also in contention for the position. Similarly, the government has appointed Shailendra Khanal as the Inspector General of Armed Police Force. He succeeds Singha Bahadur Shrestha. DIG Pushpa Ram KC was also in the race for the post. The decisions were taken following a meeting between Prime Minister Oli and CPN Maoist Centre leaders Prachanda and Ram Bahadur Thapa, who is also the Minister for Home Affairs. Published on April 10th, Tuesday, 2018 9:05 PM 
Kathmandu, April 10 The Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs has recently prepared two draft laws in order to send to provincial governments so as to guide them in drafting and implementing necessary laws. One of the drafts proposes that members of all seven provincial assemblies get equal pay and other benefits, according to the Ministry’s Joint Spokesperson Hum Bahadur KC. The Ministry has proposed a salary of Rs 45,000 per month for the provincial parliamentarians, according to him. The draft has also included specific provisions about facilities of provincial speakers, deputy speakers, officials of parliamentary committees, chief whips and whips of ruling and opposition parties beside the lawmakers.   Likewise, the second draft is about management and organisation of Provincial Assembly Secretariat. Earlier, the federal government had sent five draft laws to provincial governments. KC clarifies that the concerned Provincial Assembly can make necessary changes in the proposals. Published on April 10th, Tuesday, 2018 4:40 PM 
Kathmandu, April 10 Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa says the state does not accept violence carried out in the guise of religion. Receiving a memorandum demanding action against those involved in the attack on Hindu spiritual leader Acharya Shreeniwas in Biratnagar in the wee hours of Sunday, the Home Minister said the government was determined to take action against the culprits after due investigation. He said police arrested two persons in connection with the case whereas a manhunt was launched to nab others. “Some elements are active to lead the country towards instability by letting people fight in the name of ethnicity and religion,” he said, “They will be punished.” Meanwhile, he also assured that the government would shoulder the cost of the victim’s treatment. An unidentified gang had opened fire on the spiritual leader at around 2 am on Sunday. He is currently undergoing treatment.   Representatives of 48 religious groups and organisations had led a delegation to the Minister condemning the crime. Published on April 10th, Tuesday, 2018 4:26 PM 
Tamghas, April 10 Nepali Congress leader Prakash Man Singh says he is determined to change the party leadership if its does not improve its performance. Following the party’s debacle in recent parliamentary elections, Singh has been critical of the party President Sher Bahadur Deuba. He had held Deuba responsible for the party’s loss while speaking at the last Central Working Committee meeting. Speaking with journalists in Tamghas of Gulmi today, Singh said the party lost elections as it could not be operated democratically and according to the rule of law. “We can compete with the communist alliance only if we can improve ourselves,” he said adding, “If the leadership cannot follow the rules, we will change it.” Singh said he launched a mission to reform the party and expressed his confidence that it would be successful.   In another context, he criticised the white paper issued by Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada. Published on April 10th, Tuesday, 2018 2:48 PM 
Kathmandu, April 10 The Council of Ministers is likely to appoint new inspectors general of Nepal Police and Armed Police Force on Tuesday. Incumbent Nepal Police IG Prakash Aryal and APF IG Singha Bahadur Shrestha are retiring this week. A Cabinet meeting was held this morning. However, it could not make the appointments. Therefore, it is expected that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli will call the second meeting. Ministers have been told to stay standby. It has been learned that Prime Minister Oli and Home Affairs Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa held a separate meeting about the appointment this morning. Meanwhile, the morning meeting also failed to appoint the new Vice-Chairman of National Planning Commission. PM Oli’s CPN-UML has proposed its Central Audit Commission chief Pushpa Kandel for the position.   s Published on April 10th, Tuesday, 2018 2:32 PM 
Kathmandu, April 10 The Nepal government is preparing not to renew registration certificates of transport entrepreneur committees in its fresh bid to end the monopoly of certain organisations on the road and their activities against free and healthy competition in the market. The government move follows an announcement of transport entrepreneurs that they will launch a protest against the government decision toÂ  issue route permits to all companies and transporters on all routes. Earlier, those willing to operate their buses on certain routes had to get membership of concerned transporter committees. Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa is preparing to table a proposal for stopping renewal of such committees for now as they are getting registered as nonprofit NGOs, but earn profits. If the proposal is endorsed by the meeting, the transporters’ committees will lose their legal support to carry out any activity. Earlier last week, 11 transport committees operating buses on the Araniko Highway had launched a strike against their new competitor. However, the government did not pay attention to them, forcing them to resume services without any agreement. Nonetheless, the transporters have announced a new protest programme yesterday. Published on April 10th, Tuesday, 2018 12:45 PM 
Kathmandu, April 9 Antarprerana, aÂ private company that supports entrepreneurs of Nepal through investment and mentorship, has called applications from startup companies and people wishing to develop entrepreneurship, for its new month-long programme, Nava Udhyamshala III. “Nava Udhyamshala is an intensive course on how to transform an idea into an actual business. It is a platform where the aspiring entrepreneurs are equipped with the skills and knowledge required to start a business based on the ideas each individual has,” the company says, “This course is a flagship programme of Antarperana under the initiative of #WorkInNepal.” The third edition of the programme will begin on April 23 and the workshops will be held every day (Monday to Friday) for two hours a day. “The participants of this batch will get 20 days, two-hour group sessions with our amazing mentors, 2 MVP Premieres in various locations, opportunity to find co-founders, team members or investors through networking and one-on-one mentorship sessions with industry experts.” Interested ones can submit their applications online by April 19. Published on April 9th, Monday, 2018 2:25 PM 
Chitwan, April 9 Nepali Congress Central Working Committee member Shekhar Koirala says the change in party leadership is a must to let his party gain momentum. He says the party organisation is currently in shambles just because of the leadership’s failure. Speaking with journalists in Chitwan today, Koirala expressed his ire against party President Sher Bahadur Deuba. “It has been two years since the general convention but officials have not been appointed. He says not the party, but some persons lost the election.” “Unless he accepts that his party got defeated and he was responsible for it as the President,” he said, “The party cannot move ahead.” Koirala demanded that Deuba take initiatives to organise statute convention and general convention on time. Published on April 9th, Monday, 2018 2:09 PM 
Tanahun, April 9 The CPN-Maoist Centre’s second-in-command leader Narayan Kaji Shrestha says his party does not have any dispute with the CPN-UML as remoured outside about the election symbol of unified party that they want to make by merging two. He says the unification will not be dropped just because of differences about the poll symbol and proportion of the parties in the unified party organisation. Speaking with journalists in Bandipur of Tanahun today, he says no one needs to worry about these issues. “We will solve it and the unification will take place in a respectable fashion,” he states, “However, we are yet to discuss how to move ahead.” Shrestha maintains that the merger will be announced on April 22.   Published on April 9th, Monday, 2018 12:22 PM 
Kathmandu, April 8 Leaders of three student unions on Sunday wrote a letter to all members of the Federal Parliament demanding that they take initiatives to make an amendment to the Education Act. With the amendment, the unions want to remove the provision of 75 per cent fulfillment of vacant teachers’ positions through internal competition and allotment of only 25 per cent to new applicantss. The provision was inserted in the Act in the last (ninth) amendment by then Education Minister Gopal Man Shrestha. CPN-UML’s AANFSU, Nepali Congress’ NSU and CPN-Maoist Centre’s ANNISU-R’s chairpersons Nabina Lama, Nain Singh Mahar and Ranjit Tamang jointly wrote the letter. They have claimed that the provision deprived the children of their right to get educated from skilled and qualified teachers whereas around 700,000 youth who have already acquired teaching licence could not enjoy their right to employment. Published on April 8th, Sunday, 2018 4:27 PM 
Biratnagar, April 8 Police on Sunday arrested two persons in connection with the attack on Hindu spiritual leader Acharya Shireeniwas in Jatuwa of Biratnagar in Morang district in the wee hours today. SP Arun BC, Chief of the District Police Office, says the two were arrested from a location quite close to the incident site. He informs that further investigation is underway. The arrestees have been identified as Rajan Kumar Yadav and Binod Das, locals of Jatuwa, Biratnagar-14. An unidentified gang had opened fire on the leader at around 2 am today. Meanwhile, the injured is undergoing treatment at nearby Neuro Hospital. Doctors attending to him say he is out of danger.   Published on April 8th, Sunday, 2018 3:56 PM 
Kathmandu, April 8 Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli on Sunday received an honorary doctorate from a university in Pantnagar, Uttarakhand of India. The Govinda Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology conferred the honorary doctorate in science onÂ Oli, who is currently on a state visit to the southern neighbour. The university handed over the degree to Oli amidst a special ceremony organised at the university today, according to Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, who is accompanying Oli in the visit.   Meanwhile, Oli is scheduled to return to Kathmandu tonight. He had left for New Delhi on Friday morning for the three-day trip. Published on April 8th, Sunday, 2018 3:10 PM 
Kathmandu, April 8 Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is returning to Kathmandu from New Delhi on Sunday evening after concluding his three-day state visit to India. Oli had left for the Indian capital on Friday morning upon an invitation of Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. He had held meetings with Indian leaders and officials including President Ramnath Kovind and PM Modi on Saturday. Before flying back home, Oli will go to Uttarakhand and will attend the convocation ceremony of an agriculture university in local Pantnagar. He will be conferred on an honorary doctorate by the university at the function. Published on April 8th, Sunday, 2018 10:59 AM 
 New Delhi, April 6 Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Oli and his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi have held informal talks in New Delhi. Oli met Modi for a ‘one-on-one’ meeting at Seven Race Course. According to sources even foreign minister Pradeep Gywali and advisor Bishnu Rimal were not present on the occasion. Sources say that this meeting was not pre-scheduled and was organised after Oli landed in Delhi. The two Prime Ministers are to hold official talks on Saturday. Details of the meeting are yet to emerge. Meanwhile, Oli has also met former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Opposition Leader Rahul Gandhi.   Published on April 6th, Friday, 2018 9:30 PM 
 Solukhumbu, April 6 The number of tourists visiting Khumbu area, the gateway to the world’s highest mountain, Mt Everest, has crossed three thousand in the month of Fagun (February 13 to March 14) this year. A total of 3,244 visitors from various countries visited Khumbu during the period. The highest number of visitors came from the United States of America. A total of 378 Americans, 354 Britons, 307 Germans and 270 Chinese tourists visited Khumbu in the month of Fagun, Chief of the Sagarmatha National Park, Mishra Kaji Tamang, said. Eighty tourists came from the SAARC region while one each came from Croatia, Cambodia and Lithuania. The number of foreign tourists visiting Khumbu stood at 2,717 during the same period last year. The Sagarmatha National Park collected revenue Rs 8.58 million from tourists visiting the park during the period. Published on April 6th, Friday, 2018 3:45 PM 
Kathmandu, April 6 President Bidya Devi Bhandari has assigned Minister for Defence, Ishwar Pokharel, to work as the acting prime  minister in the absence of PM KP Sharma Oli. Oli has left for New Delhi this morning on a three-day state visit to India. Pokharel, also the General Secretary of the CPN-UML, is the second man in the Oli-led government. He has already served as a deputy prime minister earlier. The President’s Office, Sheetal Niwas, says Pokharel has been assigned to carry out day-to-day job of the Prime Minister till Oli will be back. Oli  will return home on Sunday. Published on April 6th, Friday, 2018 12:22 PM 
Kathmandu, April 6 Indian Minister for Home Affairs, Rajnath Singh, has welcomed Nepal’s Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi. Singh is the second man in Narendra Modi-led Cabinet. Oli has reached New Delhi on a three-day state visit this morning. Singh had reached the airport some minutes before the Nepal Airlines aircraft carrying Oli landed. Oli is leading a 54-member delegation to the southern neighbour. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister is scheduled to hold bilateral talks with Indian counterpart Narendra Modi, who invited him for the visit. Published on April 6th, Friday, 2018 11:23 AM 
Butwal, April 6 CPN-Maoist Centre leader Mani Thapa says his party will find it difficult to merge with the CPN-UML if Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli’s party does not agree to include ‘people’s war’ in the statute of unified party. While two parties are expected to announce the unification on April 22 on the occasion of Lenin’s birth anniversary, the leader says the parties are still at odds over some crucial issues. “If the UML wants unification, it has to accept the people’s war to move ahead,” he said while speaking at a press meet in Butwal of Rupandehi. Thapa added that he had not imagined if the UML would reject the phrase. On the other hand, he said the difference between two parties in terms of size would not be a problem for unification. “The unification is about ideology, but not about power and balance. It should be based on respect to each other’s opinions.” “We are a cadre-based party whereas the UML is a mass-based. If we can respect each others, we can open the door of socialism.”   Published on April 6th, Friday, 2018 11:15 AM 
Kathmandu, April 5 Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali has left for Baku, the capital city of Azerbaijan, to attend the Mid-Term Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). Minister Gyawali will lead the Nepal delegation to the Mid-Term Ministerial Conference of the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), says the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The conference will begin today and lasts till April 8. Other members of the delegation are Durga Prasad Bhattarai, Permanent Representative of Nepal to the United Nations in New York, and Counselor Surendra Thapa. “The conference will assess the progress since the last summit of the NAM and prepare for the upcoming summit to be held in 2019,” the Ministry says, “The theme of this conference has been set to be “Promoting International Peace and Security for Sustainable Development”.” Earlier, a Senior Officials Meeting was held on Tuesday and Wednesday before the ministerial conference. Nepal is a founding member of the non-aligned movement and its principles constitute important elements of Nepal’s foreign policy. Published on April 5th, Thursday, 2018 3:30 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 5 The former Gurkha soldier who lost his legs in an explosion in Afghanistan, where he fought alongside Prince Harry, says he is not going to attempt to scale Everest this year. Double Amputee Hari Budha Magar was preparing to scale the world’s highest peak last year when the government barred double amputees and visually impaired from attempting to climb the mountain. However, last month the Supreme Court stayed the new rule, paving the way for double amputees like Magar to get permits to climb the mountain. The dad-of-three, who lives in the UK, said although the news of the court order was ‘fantastic’ he will not set foot on Everest this year. “We did not have enough time to prepare for the expedition,” said Magar from the UK. “We could not organise everything under such a short notice. The sponsors and the documentary crew were also not ready,” he Magar, who was horrifically injured after stepping on a bomb in April 2010. Magar (38) began climbing with the support of fellow servicemen and has scaled numerous peaks including Ben Nevis and Mont Blanc, and is the only above-the-knee double amputee to summit the 6,476 metre Mera Peak in Nepal. Meanwhile, China’s 70-year-old double amputee from Xia Boyu, who has already made four attempts to conquer the mountain, is all set to become the first double amputee to attempt a climb following the court order.   Published on April 5th, Thursday, 2018 2:38 PM 
Kathmandu, April 5 A group of 11 transport entrepreneur committees, which had resorted to an indefinite strike on Wednesday in protest of the government decision to issue permits to other companies also on the route, resumed their services today. Though the group did not announce withdrawal of its protest programmes, the buses are plying the road smoothly. Earlier, the Department of Transport Management had warned that it would cancel their permits if they continued the strike. Meanwhile, after the committees announced the strike yesterday, the Department has already issued permits to at least five companies including Sajha Yatayat, Mayur Yatayat, Mahanagar Yatayat, Metro City Yatayat to launch their services on the route. This has apparently ended the monopoly of cartel. Published on April 5th, Thursday, 2018 12:57 PM 
 Kathmandu, April 4 A member of Nepali Sherpa community, currently living in the United States, is all set to climb Mount Everest this spring seasons with a mission to break her own record as the woman climbing the highest peak of the world for the highest number of times. Lhakpa Sherpa has already climbed Mount Everest for eighth time and it will be her ninth ascent to the top of the world. Sherpa has already left the US for Nepal and is expected to land in Kathmandu soon, according to the organiser of her expedition, Seven Summit Treks. It has been learned that she will climb Everest from the Tibetan side this time. She had followed the same route in her last ascent last year too. Published on April 4th, Wednesday, 2018 4:20 PM 
Kathmandu, April 4 A CPN-Maoist Centre lawmaker has reportedly convinced police to release a woman, accused of fraud, before going out of contact form police. Hit Bahadur Tamang claimed that Menaka Pandit has a 45-day-old child to care care, and convinced police to release her on Tuesday evening, according to police. Tamang had expressed his commitment to produce Pandit before police at 7 am on Wednesday morning. However, they did not show up. Police could not contact them as both have their phones switched off. Earlier, yesterday, police had arrested Pandit and Sanjaya Paudel in connection with a fraud charge. Ambika Rana of Kirtipur-9 in Kathmandu had filed a complaint against them citing they defrauded her of Rs 5.5 million with an assurance of sell a land plot in Goldhunga of Kathmandu.   Published on April 4th, Wednesday, 2018 4:07 PM 
Kathmandu, April 4 Two stone statues which were supposedly stolen from Nepal nearly one century ago have been taken back to Nepal on Wednesday. A Buddha statue stolen 88 years ago from Yatkha of Kathmandu and an Uma Maheshwar statue stolen 95 years ago from Tangalhiti of Patan were taken to the United States by the smugglers. They were kept at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the United States. The Museum agreed to return the idols after Nepal staked its claim, according to Bhesh Narayan Dahal, Director General at Department of Archaeology. Published on April 4th, Wednesday, 2018 3:13 PM 
Kathmandu, April 4 Nepal has proposed that Japan adopt a government-to-government model to recruit Nepali trainee workers for various jobs in Japan. Receiving Japanese Ambassador to Nepal, Masashi Ogawa,Â  to his office, Minister for Labour, Employment and Social Security, Gokarna Bista, requested that Japan follow the model similar to South Korea’s Employment Permit System (EPS) to recruit Nepali workforce. In response, Ogawa said he was positive about the proposal and further discussions would be carried out to make a decision about the issue. The government hopes that going to the G2G model strengthens the bilateral relationship as both the countries can reap maximum benefits. Currently, Japanese companies recruit Nepali personnel through a select group of recruitment agencies. It has been suspected that the agencies select workers on the basis of political power play. Likewise, many people reportedly fly to Japan with fake documents every year. “If we retain the current model,” the Ministry’s Joint-Secretary Krishna Gyawali says, “Workers will not benefit much. Because the Korean model has been largely successful, we should get connected with other destinations too in the same model.” The Ministry has concluded that Japan can be an attractive labour destination for Nepali workers as its labour laws are worker friendly.       Published on April 4th, Wednesday, 2018 10:19 AM 
Kathmandu, April 3 The federal government of Nepal has sent five model bills to provinces so as to help the new level of government formulate laws necessary to execute their constitutional rights. Based on these bills, the provincial governments will draft and formulate their own laws. The Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs organised a press conference in Kathmandu to inform that all seven provincial governments have been sent with the drafts. Minister Sher Bahadur Tamang informed that the Ministry would draft 22 more bills within next one week and send them too. Meanwhile, Minister Tamang said the government also began drafting new laws required at the central level for implementation of new federal structure. Around 110 such laws are needed, according to him. Published on April 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 4:48 PM 
Kathmandu, April 3 A 70-year-old double amputee from China,Â Xia Boyu, has arrived in Nepal with a mission to climb the Mount Everest this spring season. Xia has already made four attempts to conquer the top of the world, but in vain. Mingma Gyaljje Sherpa, Managing Director at the Imagine Trek and Expedition, informs Onlinekhabar that Xia had reached the Everest Base Camp in 2015, but was forced to return due to the earthquake-triggered avalanche. Likewise, he returned from a point at the height of around 8,000 metres the next year. Sherpa is accompanying Boyu to the peak. Earlier, the Nepal government had banned amputees from climbing the Everest; but the Supreme Court had later issued an interim order to stay its implementation. Published on April 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 4:30 PM 
Kathmandu, April 3 The government on Tuesday extended the deadline for receiving the second tranche of post-earthquake reconstruction grant for the quake survivors by three months. While the deadline was due to expire in mid-April, now it has been extended till mid-July. The original deadline was mid-January. A meetingÂ of the National Reconstruction Authority Steering Committee made the decision so as to let every qualified quake survivor get the grant, according to the Authority.   During the meeting, the Committee Chairman and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli directed the Authority to ensure that all survivors are getting the grant on time. The number of families losing the residences to the disastrous quake is 767,705, according to the Authority. Published on April 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 12:03 PM 
Kathmandu, April 3 President Bidya Devi Bhandari is likely to prorogue the ongoing first session of Federal Parliament session tonight. The Council of Ministers is preparing to recommend the President to end the session. A Cabinet meeting has been held this morning to make a decision about the recommendation. After the completion of elections to the House of Representatives and the National Assembly, the session had begun on March 5. Before ending the session, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is addressing both Houses of Parliament. The constitution requires the government to present annual budget for next fiscal year by May end. The next Parliament session should be called at least 15 days before that. Published on April 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 10:51 AM 
Kathmandu, April 3 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is informing both Houses of the Federal Parliament about agendas of his upcoming visit to India, today. Oli is leaving for New Delhi on a three-day state visit this Friday. Customarily, prime ministers inform the legislative body before and after their foreign trips. Meetings of the House of Representatives and the National Assembly have been called for this afternoon at different times. Both of the bodies have listed the PM’s address on their agenda as per the information provided by the Office of the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers. Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali has already clarified that the government will not sign any significant agreement with India during the trip. Published on April 3rd, Tuesday, 2018 10:23 AM 
Kathmandu, April 2 Nepal’s Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa on Monday launched a 82-point home administration reform plan of action, in which he has proposed using drones for Nepal-India border security. The plan was unveiled in the presence of chiefs of security agencies amidst a function at the Ministry today. “On the Indian side, there are security posts every kilometre, whereas the distance between two nearest posts on the Nepali side is as far as 25 kilometres,” Thapa said, “We do not have sufficient human resources to address this problem. Therefore, we will now use drones.” The plan of action stresses protection of national unity and controlling crime, corruption, black marketing. Likewise, it aims at ensuring quick service delivery to the public. The plan proposes that each local unit have a security post and security agencies be made information technology friendly. The Minister has also promised to take initiatives to establish a dedicated authority for disaster management and promote good governance.   Published on April 2nd, Monday, 2018 3:21 PM 
Kathmandu, April 2 Nepal’s anti-corruption constitutional body, Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority, says it will establish a civil engineering laboratory in its office in order to probe irregularities reported in various infrastructural development projects. CIAA spokesperson Dirgharaj Mainali says the decision was made after the number of reports about irregularities in construction of roads, bridges and buildings is increasing steadily. Likewise, other technologies will also be installed at the lab, according to him. Mainali claims officials committing irregularities in such projects cannot skip consequences. The Commission is planning to investigate the quality of Halesi-Khotang road section of Mid-Hill Highway. Published on April 2nd, Monday, 2018 12:27 PM 
Kathmandu, April 2 CPN-UML politburo member Beduram Bhusal, who prepared a draft of the interim statute for the unified communist party that the UML and the CPN-Maoist Centre wish to form after their merger, says the Maoist demand about the unification on the basis of equal numbers is just a plan to kill the ongoing process. Bhusal and Maoist Centre’s Barsha Man Pun drafted the statute as assigned by a joint task force. However, the task force could not make an agreement about some crucial issues, hence the draft has been sent to top leaders at the Party Unification Coordination Committee. On the other hand, some Maoist leaders have demanded that positions in the unified party be shared on a 50:50 ratio. “No, unification is impossible on the basis of equal numbers,” Bhusal tells Onlinekhabar in an interview, “It’s not my opinion. It’s the official view of UML.” In another context, the ideologue says his party cannot accept including ‘people’s war’ in the statute as demanded by the Maoist Centre as it is the most controversial phrase in Nepali politics and society. Published on April 2nd, Monday, 2018 12:08 PM 
Kathmandu, April 1 Total 15 parliamentary committees have been proposed for the Federal Parliament including the House of Representatives and the National Assembly. If the reports prepared by regulations draft committees of the houses will get endorsed, the House of Representatives (Lower House) and the National Assembly (Upper House) will have 10 and four committees respectively. Besides, the Parliamentary Hearing Special Committee will have members from both the bodies. However, the Nepali Congress has objected to the proposal of keeping 10 committees in the Lower House. But, the ruling parties have argued that those committees are necessary as there are around 20 ministries in the government and each committee should look after two ministries. Names of the committees will be finalised tomorrow. Meanwhile, the government is preparing to prorogue the current session of Parliament for want of sufficient business. It has been learned that Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli will address the Parliament meeting before flying to India on April 6. Then, the government will recommend the President to prorogue the session. Published on April 1st, Sunday, 2018 4:53 PM 
Kathmandu, April 1 The Supreme Court on Sunday has ordered the President’s Office, Sheetal Niwas, to furnish it with documents about decisions related to the oath of President Bidya Devi Bhandari. After being elected for the second term on Marhc 13, President Bhandari had taken the oath of office and secrecy from then Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli on March 14. However, the Judicial Council had sent a letter to Parajuli the same day informing that he was already past retirement. Therefore, challenging the legality of the oath, a petition was filed at the Supreme Court. Responding to the writ today, a single bench of Justice Kedar Prasad Chalise made the order. Now, the President’s Office is also required to send the court documents related to Parajuli’s resignation and acceptance. Meanwhile, the Judicial Council has also been order to send documents related to Parajuli’s date of birth and retirement. The court also summoned a copy of the decision of Constitutional Council to recommend Parajuli for the post. Published on April 1st, Sunday, 2018 3:57 PM 
Kathmandu, April 1 Minister for Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation Barsha Man Pun says he will promote investment of Nepali citizens in hydropower projects. Informing that his predecessors including Top Bahadur Rayamajhi and Janardan Sharma of his own party and Bishnu Paudel of CPN-UML have created foundations to let Nepalis invest in the industry, Pun says he will also follow their path. “We have been handing over big projects to either China or India or other countries,” he says, “But, this is not right. Now, we need to create an environment in which Nepali citizens can invest their money in hydropower.” In an interview with Onlinekhabar, he says people who do not have money to buy shares can contribute their labour to the project to acquire shares. In another context, Pun says he has not yet decided how the hyped Budhi Gandaki Hydropower Project is constructed after the previous Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government decided to scrap the contract ofÂ China Gezhouba Group and authorised the Nepal Electricity Authority for it. It is suspected that the current left alliance government might withdraw the decision and give the project back the Chinese company. “I have joined office just few days ago, and I will work to serve our national interests after consulting the Prime Minister, the party Chairman and other stakeholders.”   Published on April 1st, Sunday, 2018 3:29 PM 
Kathmandu, April 1 The main opposition Nepali Congress party will discontinue its ongoing Central Working Committee meeting halfway citing the death of its leader and former general secretary Khum Bahadur Khadka. One of the most controversial figures of contemporary Nepali politics, Khadka breathed his last while undergoing treatment at the Apollo Hospital in New Delhi on Friday. The meeting had begun on March 23 with the agenda of reviewing party’s performance in recent provincial and federal parliamentary elections. Many CWC members are yet to express their opinions about the issue in the meeting. The party’s central office chief secretary Krishna Prasad Paudyal says the meeting has been called for 11 am today, but it would discontinue indefinitely after that to mourn for Khadka. Meanwhile, Khadka’s last rites are being performed at the Pashupati Aryaghat today. Before this, his body will be kept at the party’s central office in Sanepa of Lalitpur for final tributes. Published on April 1st, Sunday, 2018 10:44 AM 
Kathmandu, March 30 The Nepal Airlines Corporation says its aircraft which left Doha for Kathmandu this morning was forced to land at the Indira Ghandhi International Airport in New Delhi of India after a passenger misbehaved with its crew and some other passengers. Later, the NAC handed over the person to Indian police before the aeroplane flew to Kathmandu, according to NAC spokesperson Rabindra Shrestha. The aircraft was set to land in Kathmandu at 10:30 am today. Shrestha says the NAC is investigating into the case and the identity of the passenger. Published on March 30th, Friday, 2018 5:08 PM 
Kathmandu, March 30 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC says he will stage another round of fast-unto-death after 15 days if the government fails to heed four demands he put forward today. The demands include endorsement of the Medical Education Ordinance from Parliament as it is, publication of the report prepared by a committee to investigate anomalies in the country’s medical education sector and action against people involved in damaging the sector as recommended by the report, among others. The government has already decided to table the ordinance in Parliament seeking its approval as it would expire after 60 days from the date of issuing upon the failure to get House approval. He also demanded that the government launch an investigation against former Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli and the Tribhuvan University make the Institute of Medicine more autonomous. Dr KC has already staged 14 rounds of indefinite hunger strike in fast few years demanding various reforms in the medical education sector. Published on March 30th, Friday, 2018 4:43 PM 
Kathmandu, March 30 Nepal’s national cricket team captain Paras Khadka says he is in regular conversation with popular comedian and social activist Sitaram Kattel ‘Dhurmus’ who on Thursday announced that he would launch a campaign to construct an international cricket stadium in the country. He says he just met Dhurmus this morning to discuss the issue further, adding the two were in conversation for last few months about the project. He said cricketers would support Dhurmus’ campaign wholeheartedly, expressing his confidence that the project would achieve its target. “They have been contributing to the society for a long time now. All people have trust in them,” he said urging the government and non-government sectors too to extend the support. Meanwhile, Khadka said Kathmandu and Pokhara should be taken as priority locations for the construction.   Published on March 30th, Friday, 2018 2:40 PM 
Kathmandu, March 30 A key Maoist leader who is involved in negotiations between the CPN-Maoist Centre and the CPN-UML says the two parties are certain about the unification of two parties at the earliest. Janardan Sharma reveals that the two parties are set to announce the merger on April 22 on the anniversary of Communist Party of Nepal. Whereas uncertainty has loomed over their plan as his party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal recently said the unification would be held only if there was a 50:50 partnership, Sharma claims all such issues have been settled. Even the parties have already made an understanding on the role of Dahal in the unified party, according to him. “We have already decided that KP Oli will be a chairman of the unified party whereas Prachanda will be the other. Now, we are working for management of other leaders and cadres.” About Dahal’s controversial statement, Sharma says,Â “Prachanda (Dahal) did not make any anti-unification statement. He just said that the two parties would unify on the basis of equality.” A confidant of Dahal, Sharma told Onlinekhabar in an interview, “We are not going to disappear into each other; the two parties are unifying to form the Communist Party of Nepal.” “The base of unification is not about number and percentage. It is neither 50:50, nor 60:40,” he clarifies, “It is just equality.” “There is no other bottom line, neither did our Chairman say it was a bottom line,” he says, “He talked about the theoretical basis, not the number.” Published on March 30th, Friday, 2018 12:08 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 30 Nepal Police on Thursday arrested a suspect of a bank robbery that took place in Chennai of India on Monday. A team deployed from the Interpol’s National Central Bureau for Nepal arrested the security guard at the bank, identified as Sabilal from his home country on the charge of stealing money from the Indian Overseas Bank*. Earlier, Interpol’s National Central Bureau in Mumbai had requested Kathmandu’s NCB to find him suspecting Shahi flew to his home after the crime. Meanwhile, Indian media have reported that Nepal Police refused toÂ hand him over to the Chennai police as they have to follow various norms to extradite him from Nepal to India, as per the treaty signed between the two countries in 1963. In another case, a suspect of a theft at a departmental store in Mumbai of India has been arrested from Surkhet of mid-western Nepal. Shahi is a resident of Barahatal Rural Municipality in Surkhet. SP Uma Prasad Chaturbedi at the Surkhet District Police Office says police are interrogating him at the DPO. In his statement, Shahi confessed to his crime in cahoots with others, according to a source. It has been learned that two other Nepalis have been arrested in India in connection with the case. *Corrected and updated   Published on March 30th, Friday, 2018 11:23 AM 
Kathmandu, March 29 Transport entrepreneurs providing public transport services along the Araniko Highway connecting Kathmandu to Kavre, Sindhupalchok, Dolakha and Ramechhap districts have warned of launching a strike demanding that a permit issued to their new competitors be scrapped. Recently, the Department of Transport Management has issued a permit to Mayur Yatayat which is preparing to operate 24 big buses from Kathmandu to Banepa of Kavre. Organising a press conference in Kathmandu today, representatives of 13 business associations said they submitted a memorandum to the District Administration Offices of Bhaktapur and Kavre districts demanding that the new association be restricted from launching its business. Otherwise, they would not operate buses along rural routes of Bhaktapur and Kavre from Sunday and and all buses playing the Highway from Wednesday, according to them. Published on March 29th, Thursday, 2018 4:33 PM 
Beni, March 29 The Beni-Jomsom road will see an eight-hour closure everyday from Friday to accelerate the upgrading task, said the District Administration Office (DAO). A meeting of transport entrepreneurs, local people’s representatives, contractors and representatives of the project, held on Tuesday evening in coordination with the DAO took a decision to this effect. According to the closure schedule, the road section will be shut from 7:30 am to 11:30 am and from 2:30 pm to 6:30 pm everyday. Chief District Officer Krishna Prasad Adhikari said the road closure move was taken to complete the project in time. The upgrading task of the 76-kilometre road was underway into various four sections for last six months. Under the upgradation, the road will be blacktopped, said Indra Singh Sherchan, supervisor for the Sharma Gajurmukhi JV, one of the contractors. According to a project official, Sharma United JV is working on Galeshwor-Bhurung-Tatopani, while Sharma Gajurmukhi JV has been contracted to reconstruct Tatopani-Kobang. Likewise, Koshi Construction is working on Kobang-Jomsom. RSS Published on March 29th, Thursday, 2018 4:13 PM 
Kathmandu, March 29 Popular comedian and social activist Sitaram Kattel ‘Dhurmus’ says he will take an initiative to construct an international cricket stadium in the country. The announcement apparently follows a lot of requests made by members of the public via social media to take the initiative as Nepal still does not have such stadiums though it has already received the one day international status. Before this, the Dhurmus Suntali Foundation established by the comedian couple has already built and handed over four integrated model settlements for earthquake survivors and backward communities. Dhurmus made the plan public today via his Facebook page that a stadium construction committee would be formed soon to take the process ahead. Claiming that it was an campaign of the entire nation, he expressed his hope that the government would provide sufficient support. Published on March 29th, Thursday, 2018 3:35 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 28 Police have fired teargas and water cannon at protesters rallying against various road expansion projects in and around Kathmandu. Protesters, who gathered at the Maitighar Mandala, chanted slogans against the government and demanded that it correct its approach in projects such as the Kathmandu-Terai Fast-track and Outer Ring Road. Police fired teargas at the protesters as they tried to march towards the Parliament building, about a kilometere away from Maitighar. Some of the protesters laid down on the street to disrupt traffic and call everyone’s attention at the demonstrations. It was then that the police fired water cannon at the protesters. A total of 16 protesters were arrested. They have been sent to Baneswhor Police station. Kathmandu Police chief Biswa Raj Pokhrel told Onlinekhabar that the protesters vandalised two police vans. Meanwhile, Ganapati Shrestha, who was leading the demonstrations said that the police intervened during peaceful protests. Published on March 28th, Wednesday, 2018 7:47 PM 
Kathmandu, March 28 A key aide to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli said his proposed India visit, likely to be held after around 10 days, will focus on financial agendas. The CP-UML leader, who is de facto foreign affairs advisor to the PM, says preparations for the visit are underway. Oli has mobilised Bhattarai, a member of the Eminent Persons Group on Nepal-India Relations, to lead the preparations at his secretariat. “The Prime Minister will talk to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi on few issues, but they will result in significant achievements for Nepal,” speaking at an interaction he said, “Our highs and lows will be smooth and we will move ahead with mutual respect to our interests. We will address each other’s genuine concerns.” Bhattarai also added that India would highlight infrastructure development in Nepal. Published on March 28th, Wednesday, 2018 4:48 PM 
Kathmandu, March 28 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli will address the nation from Rara Lake of Mugu district in Karnali Province of the country on the occasion of the New Year of Bikram Samvat. BS 2075 is beginning on April 14. The PM’s address will be a part of the inaugural of the Karnali Tourism Year to be hosted by the provincial government. “I will be the first tourist of the Tourism Year 2075 to be organised by the Karnali Province,” addressing a function in Kathmandu today, the CPN-UML Chairman said, “We will blow the trumpet of tourism from Rara.” In another context, Oli said his government would adopt a new policy and pace, which will be different from the previous governments. Published on March 28th, Wednesday, 2018 4:27 PM 
Sindhupalchok, March 28 After the government recently decided to allow climbers scale the Jugal Mountain in Sindhupalchok district, a high-profile expedition is preparing to explore the virgin peak soon. Tourism entrepreneurs have convinced top politicians and climbers of the district to ascend the 6,966 metre mountain for the first time so that it will push their promotion campaign. Those preparing to climb the peak include provincial minister Yubaraj Dulal, CPN-Maoist Centre leaders Madhav Sapkota and Saral Sahayatri, former lawmaker Subash Karmacharya and climber Maya Gurung. Dulal, Sahayatri and Gurung have already conquered the Mount Everest. However, a trail has to be prepared upto the base camp in Bumbaserpungyakharka before the ascent. “After that, climbing up this peak is so easy,” says tourism entrepreneur Milan Lama. The cost for trail construction has been estimated at Rs 500,000. It is expected that the team will hold the first expedition in the first and second weeks of October. Published on March 28th, Wednesday, 2018 1:04 PM 
Kathmandu, March 28 A day after medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC warned of staging another round of fast-unto-death, the government has decided to table the Medical Education Ordinance in Parliament seeking approval. Owing to Dr KC’s demand, the previous government had issued the law in the absence of legislative body. The constitution requires that such an ordinance should be endorsed by Parliament within 60 days. Minister for Education, Science and Technology Giriraj Mani Pokharel has made the decision to table the ordinance. A source at the Ministry says the government is also drafting a bill to replace the ordinance with a regular act. Published on March 28th, Wednesday, 2018 12:30 PM 
Kathmandu, 27 The Judicial Council has recommended the Constitutional Council to choose the next Chief Justice from among the three senior-most justices of the apex court. The meeting of the council on Tuesday has forwarded the names of Justices Deepak Raj Joshee, Om Prakash Mishra and Choldendra Shamsher JBR for the top job. According to the Constitution, the President appoints the Chief Justice upon the recommendation of the Constitutional Council. Joshee is currently working in the capacity of acting CJ after his predecessor Gopal Prasad Parajuli was relieved from his post. Published on March 27th, Tuesday, 2018 8:40 PM 
Janakpur, March 27 The Chief Minister of Province 2 government, Lalbabu Raut, has unveiled an ambitious 100-day plan incorporating various development agendas, on Tuesday. The new plan aims at insuring every girl child for their education in partnership with private insurance companies. Likewise, the government will launch a free SMS service to let women report their problems including incidents of violence they face. The provincial investment board will be established to make investment-friendly environment. A women help desk will be established at the Chief Minister’s Office. Similarly, a cleanup campaign will be launched whereas a smart city will be established in each of eight districts. The government will provide employment opportunities to at least one family member of each martyr in the province.   Published on March 27th, Tuesday, 2018 12:30 PM 
Kathmandu, March 27 The Nepali Congress Central Working Committee meeting, which began last Friday, is continuing today as well. The meeting will last for next few days as many members are yet to express their opinions about the meeting agendas including the review of its performance in recent elections and contemporary political issues, according to party central office chief secretary Krishna Prasad Paudyal. So far, 23 leaders have spoken at the meeting since Friday and 22 more members have registered their names seeking time to express their opinions, says Paudyal. Most of the leaders so far have viewed that the party lost recent polls owing to its internal weaknesses rather than some external factors. The party’s factionalism has been clearly reflected in the meeting as those close to party President Sher Bahadur Deuba are defending many charges put forward by other leaders of the party against the leadership. Published on March 27th, Tuesday, 2018 11:46 AM 
Nepalgunj, March 27 Naya Shakti Nepal coordinator and former prime minister Baburam Bhattarai says the CPN-Maoist Centre is committing suicide in the form of a merger with the CPN-UML. Bhattarai’s statement follows his former comrade and Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal’s request to him to join the merger process and become a part of the new unified communist party. He has been repeatedly ruling out the possibility of his going back to the Maoist party. Addressing his cadres at a training programme here today, Bhattarai said, “The UML-Maoist merger is not only Prachanda (Dahal)’s surrender, but also the suicide of entire party.” “If you want to commit suicide, just do it. Why are you calling me to join,” he questioned Dahal. Meanwhile, he reiterated that his party would launch a movement for development and prosperity.   Published on March 27th, Tuesday, 2018 11:12 AM 
Kathmandu, March 26 Nepali Congress senior leader Shekhar Koirala says the Oli government is bent on capturing the powers of the state and the NC, in its current state, cannot stop it. Koirala, who was speaking at the party’s central committee, said that from the government’s recent activities, it was clear that it wants to enforce authoritarian rule in Nepal. ‘The Judicial Council Secretariat’s move to relieve the Chief Justice from his post is a sign that the government is bent on authoritarianism,” said Koirala adding the the Oli government will slowly censor the media and take control of the security agencies. Koirala said that the Nepali Congress can lead the charge against authoritarianism, but to do that it will have to transform itself. Koirala also criticised Deuba for failing to lead the party during a difficult situation. Published on March 26th, Monday, 2018 8:35 PM 
       Kathmandu, March 26 Nepal’s only stock market index Nepse continued to decline on Monday, six days after the slump started. When the market opened, the circuit breaker had to be put in place just 40 minutes into the trading day after the index shed three percentage points. When the market re-opened after 15 minutes, the decline continued. Market observers say that investors hoped that the government would address the concerns of the market in a ‘white paper’ it is preparing to present soon. However, Finance Minister Yubraj Khatiwada, who has not been received well by the market, hinted that he was not going to address the market’s issues in his white paper. When trading closed on Monday, the index shed 51 points to settle at 1,168. Nepse hasn’t registered an increment for a long time as investors are weary of the liquidity crunch in the market, and indications of a decline in the banking sector’s profitability. The last time the Nepse went below 1200 was on January 6, 2016. Published on March 26th, Monday, 2018 8:16 PM 
      Kathmandu, March 26 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says that Nepal’s foreign policy is about maintaining balance between its ties with its neighbours. Speaking at a program organised to launch a book on ‘Nepal-China relations’, he said his government wants to further relations with all the friendly nations based on equality. “We emphasise on friendship, our policy is of friendship, and hence it cannot be unequal and unbalanced. It will be equal,” he said. On a different note, the Prime Minister said any matter that disturbs the newfound change and peace in Nepal is not acceptable. “Efforts to disturb social relations shall not be tolerated,” he said. On the occasion, Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said international relations shall be expanded in a balanced manner while noting that the relations between the Nepal and China will gain new heights in the days to come. Former Foreign Minister Sujata Koirala said Nepal and China have always enjoyed sound relations and that China has never interfered in Nepal’s internal affairs.
Chinese Ambassador to Nepal Yu Hong said the Belt and Road Initiative was a noble opportunity to expand China-Nepal relations and mutual collaboration. Published on March 26th, Monday, 2018 7:59 PM 
Kailali, March 26 Uttar Pradesh’s Special Task Force abducted a Nepali man, held him hostage for five days and demanded Rs 1.28 million in ransom, it has been revealed. According to sources, Kutbuddin Miya, who hails from Lekhnath Metropolitan City-4, was released by the state government’s ‘counter-organised crime’ unit after news about the incident spread. Miya told officials that he went to Tikapur, Kailali, near the Indo-Nepal border on March 20 in course of his personal work. He was allegedly abducted by the STF from Tikuniya on the Indian side of the border the same day. Members of his family told police that the STF demanded INR 800,000 for his release.Â According to sources, Miya was brought to Kotwali near the border and released by the STF on Saturday evening. Sources say that Indian authorities learnt about Miya’s abduction when his son-in-law, who had come to Tikapur with the ransom money, was arrested on March 23 by the SSB. The SSB had recovered INR 800,000 from Razud De, who was to meet STF operatives on the Indian side of the border to secure the release of his father-in-law. De is learnt to have told the SSB about the episode. The SSB is then learnt to have relayed the information to its command and attempted to secure his release. After news spread that Miya had been abducted by the STF, the kidnappers reduced the ransom amount and asked for INR 400,000. But after the abductors learnt that the SSB was looking for Miya, they dropped the plan and released him. The issue of Miya’s abduction was also raised during a high-level security meeting between the officials of the two countries on Saturday. Sources say that the India side admitted that Miya had been arrested and would be released soon. It would take just 20 more minutes for him to be released. Following his release, Miya has returned home to Pokharel. Police say it was still not clear why the STF abducted Miya. Indian officials are also tight-lipped about the case. Published on March 26th, Monday, 2018 11:28 AM 
Kathmandu, March 25 Prime Minister and CPN UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli wants the merger process between his party and the CPN Maoist centre concluded before his official visit to New Delhi, sources say. According to sources close to the Prime Minister, Oli plans to head to New Delhi from April 6-8. It had earlier been decided that the merger announcement would be made on April 22, the establishment day of Nepal’s oldest communist party. However, Oli wants the announcement to be preponed. “Prime Minister Oli want to visit India as a powerful leader of a united communist party,” a source said. “That is why he wants the merger to be announced before he meets Modi in Delhi,” the source added. Prime Minister Oli knows that Modi and his party have earned a big mandate from the Indian people and he wants to show the establishment in New Delhi that he too has the backing of a majority of the electorate. Further, Oli wants to position himself as Xi and Modi’s Nepali equivalent by assuming the chair of Nepal’s largest communist party and commanding more than a two-third majority in Parliament. Published on March 25th, Sunday, 2018 7:11 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 25 The National Election Observation Committee says although the EC has successfully conducted polls at all levels of government, there are several areas in which the poll body needs to improve its performance. Members of the committee, who presented their final report to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli at a programme in Kathmandu on Sunday, said that the election commission could not effectively implement its code of conduct, especially on social media. Similarly, it took a lot of time to declare the results, didn’t educate the voters on the polling process and spent more that required during the process. The committee also said that the government’s choice of date for elections was not suitable for voters. Himalaya Shamsher Rana, the chief of the committee, said that the commission should be allowed to choose the date for elections in the future. “Parliament should give the Election Commission the right to declare elections. That way, the commission can get enough time to prepare for the polls,” he added. Rana said that the elections took place at a time when voters in the mountains could not easily come to the polling stations because of the weather. The committee’s general secretary Gopal Shiwakoti alleged that state-owned media could not play an independent role during the elections. He said that the the Election Commission failed to implement its code of conduct on social media. Despite all the shortcomings, the commission managed to conduct the elections in a peaceful environment, says the report. It says that the people responded positively to the government’s security arrangement to go to the polling stations to vote, despite threats from groups that boycotted the elections. Published on March 25th, Sunday, 2018 7:02 PM 
Eight people were injured when an improvised explosive device (IED) went off, targeting a jewelry shop in Lahan on Friday. Proprietor of the jewelry house (Bikash Traders) Bikash Sharada, his younger brother Rahul Sharada, staff Asmita Kumari Chaudhary, 21, customers Dev Kumari Yadav, 22, of Nawarajpur Rural Municipality-3 and her seven-year-old daughter Satish, Manikadevi Ram of Surunga Municipality-6, Babita Yadav of Lahan Municipality-21 and her younger sister Binita Yadav have been injured in the explosion. Among them, five are undergoing treatment at the Saptarishi Nursing Home and three have been admitted to the Ram Prasad Umasmarak Hospital, District Police Office’s Deputy Superintendent of Police, Rajendra Bhetwal said. Who carried out the blast and with what motive is yet to be ascertained. Investigations into it are underway. Last month also, Lahan recorded two separate explosions. RSS Published on March 23rd, Friday, 2018 8:28 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 23 Three people died on the spot and nine others were injured when a passenger bus met an accident at Tamakhani of Melamchi Municipality-12 in Sindhupalchowk district on Friday.
The bus operated by the Aama Helmo Transport (registration plate number Ba 3 Kha 4325) met with the accident at 2 pm. It was going towards Melamchi from Kathmandu.
Those killed in the accident are 40-year-old Chandra Bahadur Deuja and two others whose names and address has not been ascertained yet, the Area Police Office, Melamchi said.
The passengers injured in the accident are receiving treatment at Nepal Medical College Hospital in Kathmandu and at the Regional Hospital, Melamchi. RSS Published on March 23rd, Friday, 2018 8:25 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 23 Nepali Congress senior leader Krishan Prasad Sitaula has demanded that the party organise it general convention at the earliest. Sitauala, who challenged party President Sher Bahadur Deuba for the party leadership two years ago, criticised Deuba for failing to lead the Nepali Congress to victory in the recent elections. Speaking at a meeting of the party’s central committee, which started on Friday, the former home minister also criticised the party’s number two Ram Chandra Paudel. Sitaula said that he alerted the party to take stand on issues such as the blockade, appointment of the IGP and a democratic alliance to face the Left Alliance, but the leadership did not listen. Sitaula said that the way forward was to organise the party’s general convention. “You may capture the party but by the time you do that, someone else would have captured the country,” he said. Published on March 23rd, Friday, 2018 8:16 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 23 The European Union’s Election Observation Mission to Nepal says it adhered to the standard international exercise adopted by election observation missions to review of administrative practices, legislation, and the constitution when reporting on elections. It also says that the recommendations made in the report are based on Nepal’s international commitments. This comes two days after Nepal’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement condemning the final report prepared by the mission, which calls for an end to reservation for the Khas/Aryan group, among others. The ministry had said the mission went beyond its jurisdiction to talk about issues that had already been settled by the new constitution. Similarly, the Election Commission said on Thursday that the EU’s report breaches an agreement between the mission and the poll body to observe the electoral process in Nepal. “The assessment and recommendations in the EU EOM’s final report are based on international and regional commitments for democratic elections to which Nepal is a signatory,” said the mission in a statement on Friday. After receiving criticism from various quarters saying that the EU Mission failed to acknowledge the historic nature of Nepal’s recent achievements, the EU mission says that there are many positives in the report as well. The mission says the legal framework for the elections were sound, and despite ‘shortcomings’ identified in the process, the Election Commission conducted the polls within a tight timeframe. Referring to the various legal and constitutional ‘reforms’ suggested in the controversial report, the mission said that the recommendations were widely consulted and discussed at a roundtable on December 28, 2017. The mission states that all recommendations made in the report are for the consideration of Nepal, and it is up to Nepal to decide issues related to the constitution and other laws. Published on March 23rd, Friday, 2018 3:08 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 23 Nepali Congress senior leader Khum Bahadur Khadka is on life support, doctors involved in his treatment at the Apollo Hospital in New Delhi say. According to the hospital, Khadka suffers from kidney, chest and neurological ailments. Khadka was rushed to New Delhi last month. He was put on life support on Wednesday, the hospital’s representative in Kathmandu Arjun Bahadur Chand informed. Khadka had recently received a kidney transplant. Khadka is considered an influential leader in the Nepali Congress and a key ally of former Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba. He had been advocating for an amendment to the constitution to make Nepal a ‘Hindu’ state again. He was convicted on 13 August 2012 with several counts of corruption, slapping him one-and-half year jail sentence along with a penalty of Rs 9.47 million. Published on March 23rd, Friday, 2018 11:08 AM 
 Nijagadh, March 22 Defence Minister Ishwor Pokhrel says the Kathmandu-Terai fast-track, one of the national pride projects, will be completed on time. The minister, who visited the project area on Thursday, said said the government was ready to solve any problem facing the Nepali army unit working on the project. “National pride projects are essential for the country’s development,” he added. The project’s target is to finish construction within four years. Minister Pokhrel further added that assistance would be sought from locals and people’s representatives from Kathmandu, Lalitpur, Makwanpur and Bara districts. Similarly, while an effective coordination mechanism will be built by incorporating the concerned ministries and the departments.   Published on March 22nd, Thursday, 2018 9:59 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 22 Representatives from the IPL franchise Delhi Daredevils have unveiled the jersey they have chosen for Nepal’s leggie Sandeep Lamicchane, who is to play the biggest T20 league in the world this season. Although Prime Minister KP Oli was expected do the honours, Nepal Sports Council Member-Secretary Keshav Bista unveiled the jersey on behalf of the Delhi-based team. The Daredevils’ Hemant Dua handed over the jersey to Lamichhane, who was sold to the franchise for INR 2 million. We had been keeping an eye on Sandeep for over a year, said Dua. The Daredevils’ CEO said that Lamichhane was selected because the team’s coach Ricky Ponting was impressed by Lamichhane, who will sport the number 1 jersey in the tournament. Dua said that Lamichhane himself chose the number. Dua said that Lamichhane’s performance in the upcoming camps would determine whether he will make it to the playing XI or not. Published on March 22nd, Thursday, 2018 9:07 PM 
Chitwan, March 22 Contractors working on the Narayangadh-Muglin Highway upgrade project, which was supposed to be completed last year, have been given three more months to wrap up the construction work. Work on widening the highway, one of the key components of Nepal’s highway network, began in 2015. The project was expected to be completed in 2017. However, following the earthquake and the Indian blockade, the deadline for the work was extended for 10 months. Now, the companies are saying that frequent landslides, election-related traffic and movement of vehicles during the festivals are impacting their work and it cannot be completed on time. Supreme-Rautaha JV was awarded the contract for working the 12.1 kilometre stretch from Simlatar to Muglin, Hill-Lama JV for a 10.7-kmsection and BLA-Shrestha JV for a 10.4 km section. According to the project the contractors have been given deadlines of May 10, May 20 and May 30 respectively. Earlier, the project had hinted that the deadline would be extended by 70-80 days. The project says that only 82 per cent of the civil works has been completed so far. Of the 33.2 km, only 24.5 km has been tarmacked so far. Published on March 22nd, Thursday, 2018 8:54 PM 
Kathmandu, March 22 Nepal Federation of Indigenous Nationalities (NEFIN) has defended a controversial report prepared by the EU’s election observer mission to Nepal. The organisation, which has been lobbying for the rights of indigenous communities, said that the EU was right to call for an end to reservation for members of the Khas/Aryan community, a day after the government issued a strong-worded statement against the report. The government had said that the EU observer mission went beyond its mandate to comment on the reservation system. In a statement on Thursday, NEFIN criticised the government for acting on impulse to respond to the report, made public a few days ago. The organisation’s chair Jagat Bahadur Baram said that the the EU’s report paints an accurate picture of the political situation of Nepal. He says that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs unfortunately misinterpreted the most ‘beautiful’ aspects of the report. NEFIN has called on the foreign ministry to rectify the claims made in the statement. Published on March 22nd, Thursday, 2018 8:41 PM 
  Chitwan, March 21 Naya Shakti Party coordinator Baburam Bhattarai has ruled out the possibility of a merger betweenÂ  his party and the Maoist Centre. Speaking at a programme organised by Province No 3 and 4 in Bharatpur on Wednesday, the former Prime Minister said that the party would choose to either support or oppose the government on the basis of its activities, He said, “We will support the activities of the government if it is in favour of the nation and the people and protest those carried out against the people and nation.” He argued that it was not necessary to garner three-fourths majority, and having two-thirds would suffice.
Bhattarai said, “There should be the ruling and opposition parties in democracy. The ruling side will implement its policy and programme without restraint if there isn’t any opposition.” Published on March 21st, Wednesday, 2018 8:53 PM 
       Kathmandu, March 21 Nepal’s newly appointed minister for Tourism and Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari has vowed to make visible changes at the country’s only international airport, within the next two months. Adhikari, in an interview with Onlinekhabar, said that many people came to him to congratulate him on his new job, and their number one complaint was related to the Tribhuvan International Airport. “You just need to wait for two months from now. You will see visible changes at the airport, it will be cleaner and its operations more scientific,” said Adhikari. The minister said that he wants to focus his initial days on upgrading the TIA. “The expansion of the airport should be done with a time frame of around four-five years,” said Adhikari adding that the Nijgadh International Airport needs to be ready by the time. He explained that he would also take the initiative to expedite work in the Bhairahawa airport. “Some people have suggested that a second runway be built at the TIA, but that is not possible as they would require a separation of around one km,” he said in the interview. The UML leader told Onlinekhbar that the the ministry is looking the possibility of preparing a separate runway for flights to hilly areas. “We won’t shift the whole domestic terminal, but conduct some flights from a different location such as Dhulikhel,” he said. Published on March 21st, Wednesday, 2018 7:27 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 21 The World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors has approved a $200 million credit to Nepal to improve its public financial management. The Fiscal and Public Financial Management Development Policy Credit is the first in a two-part program to support Nepal in establishing a framework for fiscal federalism and improved public financial management, said the bank. “Nepal today is at a historic juncture as it transitions from a unitary to a federal democratic republic. Expectations are high that the new structure will deliver on greater equity and accountability,” said Qimiao Fan, World Bank Country Director for Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. “This operation will help establish a fiscal framework that will ensure that the newly elected governments can deliver better services to all Nepali citizens.” This operation will support implementation of the Intergovernmental Fiscal Arrangement Act; establishment of the National Natural Resources and Fiscal Commission; adoption of the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Bill; strengthening of public financial management systems; improvements in budget execution; and reforms to improve revenue collection. Commending Nepal for successfully concluding local, state and federal elections under the new constitutional framework, the Executive Directors welcomed the Bank’s strategic shift to supporting federalism to help avoid disruptions, improve service delivery and promote transparency and accountability. Directors encouraged the Bank to fully support Nepal’s transition to achieve inclusive development, especially in traditionally underserved areas, in coordination with other development partners. The World Bank also approved a $66 million credit for the Phase 2 of the Rani Jamara Kulariya Irrigation Scheme. Published on March 21st, Wednesday, 2018 7:14 PM 
Kathmandu, March 20 Rastriya Prajatantra Party’s Chairman Kamal Thapa says his party will review its past activities and build a stronger RPP. Addressing a joint meeting of various organisations affiliated to the party on Tuesday, Chairman Thapa said programmes with political, organisational and ideological programmes will be taken ahead together. According to him, the party would take the initiative to create an atmosphere for socio-economic transformation of the country.
Various leaders of the party-affiliated organisations as Chirajman Singh Kunwar, Kedar Dhamala, Harihar Shrestha, Yadav Raj Pande and Shravan Kumar Nepali presented the work plans on how the party organization could be made more functional. RSS Published on March 20th, Tuesday, 2018 10:33 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 20 Home Minister Ram Bahadur Thapa, who inspected the country’s central jail on Tuesday, is also learnt to have met Maoist leader Bal Krishna Dhungel who is doing time for a murder ten year ago. According to sources, Thapa told Dhungel that his case was related to the conflict and should not be viewed as any other murder case. According to a court verdict, Dhungel murdered Ujjan Kumar Shrestha of Okhaldhunga 10 years ago. A court has sentenced him for life after finding him guilty. Thapa, who enquired about Dhungel’s health, is learnt to have committed to getting Dhungel released soon. Dhungel, meanwhile, congratulated Thapa on the impending unification with the UML. Published on March 20th, Tuesday, 2018 10:22 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 20 Police have arrested the main suspect in the Darbarmarg rape case, which took place in January. According to police, Shailesh Karki, who is from Ramechham Dura Gaun-3, was arrested on Monday night. Karki and his friends allegedly raped a woman at hotel in Darbarmarg in the last week of January. The development comes a month after the revelation that the ‘victim’ changed her statement after the suspect paid her Rs 3 million to do so. The victim  had agreed to say it in writing that the duo had consensual sex, after she was paid the hefty sum. Following the out-of-court settlement, the ‘victim’ had also agreed not to take any legal action against the suspect. It was also revealed that police officials from the Darbarmarg-based Metropolitan Police Circle facilitated the negotiation between the family of the woman and the suspect. The suspect even allegedly bribed police personnel to convince them to not take up the case. A formal investigation into the episode was launched soon after the revelations. Karki is now likely to stand trial.     Published on March 20th, Tuesday, 2018 10:06 PM 
   Kathmandu, March 20 The first meeting of the Bilateral Consultation Mechanism between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nepal and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of Israel was held in Kathmandu on Monday. Matters of bilateral relations and mutual interest between Nepal and the State of Israel were discussed on that occasion, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The meeting reviewed the current status of bilateral cooperation in the fields of economy, technology and culture between the two countries and discussed ways to further develop the cooperative relations and partnership in the days to come. The Israeli side was led by Deputy Director-General for Asia and Pacific Division Gilad Cohen, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of Israel and the Nepali side was led by Joint Secretary, Central Asia, West Asia and Africa Division of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Nepal Durga Prasad Bhandari. Ambassador of Israel in Nepal Benny Omer was also present during the meeting as a member of the Israeli Delegation, adds the Ministry. Published on March 20th, Tuesday, 2018 2:38 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 20 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has called Chief Ministers of all seven provinces to Kathmandu, the Office of the PM said on Tuesday. The Prime Minister will host the leaders for a meeting on Wednesday to understand their needs, the office said. This comes days after the chief ministers started complaining that legal and administrative hurdles make it difficult for them to stamp their authority. The chief ministers are also not clear about the pieces of legislation they are to present in the assemblies. The provinces are also facing a shortage of civil servants as all bureaucrats transferred to the provinces have not reported to their workstations. The PM’s office said that secretaries and chief attornies of the provinces have also been invited for the consultation. The Prime Minister will immediately act in accordance with the results of the meeting. Law Minister Sher Bahadur Tamang said that as provincial governments are in their early days, the government is considering the option of formulating model laws for the provincial assemblies to take a leaf from. “The Prime Minister wants to bolster the authority of the provinces,” he said. Published on March 20th, Tuesday, 2018 11:02 AM 
Kathmandu, March 19 Minister for Industry, Commerce and Supplies Matrika Prasad Yadav had a courtesy meeting with Minister of External Affairs of India Sushma Swaraj in New Delhi on Monday.
During the meeting, the two ministers exchanged views on a range of matters of Nepal-India relations, according to the Nepali Embassy in New Delhi.
Minister of Industry, Commerce and Supplies Yadav conveyed the desire of the Government of Nepal to further consolidate bilateral relations with India and to this end, he stressed on the need of stepping up meaningful economic cooperation on the basis of mutuality of benefits.
On the occasion, External Affairs Minister Swaraj assured of India’s continuous support for Nepal’s development and prosperity. The External Affairs Minister termed the completion of the processes of various elections in Nepal as important achievement.
Earlier this afternoon, Commerce Minister Yadav met the Minister of Commerce and Industry of India, Suresh Prabhu and discussed about various matters related to bilateral trade, transit and investment. They also shared views on the importance of the World Trade Organization for countries like Nepal and India as well as on how the like-minded countries can work together to safeguard and strengthen the rule-based multilateral trading system. Minister for Industry, Commerce and Supplies Yadav is on a visit to India at the invitation of the Minister of Commerce and Industry of India in order to participate in the informal meeting of the ministers responsible for the WTO being held in New Delhi from March 19 to 20. The minister reached Delhi earlier this afternoon. RSS Published on March 19th, Monday, 2018 9:32 PM 
Kathmandu, March 19 Minister for Federal Affairs and General Administration Lalbabu Pandit says he will fire civil servants who do not go to their designated work stations. Pandit also said that his ministry will keep a record of bureaucrats who do not show up at their respective offices. The minister, who in past barred civil servants from seeking permanent residency abroad, warned that civil servants who do not report to work will have their pay and perks discontinued. The minister, who assumed his office a few days ago, vowed to adopt a tough stance against trade unions. He added that his ministry will not bow down to pressure from unions when it comes to transfer and promotion of employees. Published on March 19th, Monday, 2018 7:32 PM 
 Phalebas, Parbat, March 19 A Tara Airlines plane has landed at Balewa Airport in Baglung for the first time in 16 years. The private airline conducted its test flight from Pokhara using a Twin Otter (9NKL). Tara is preparing to operate regular flights from Pokhara to Balewa from coming March 23. The company said today’s test flight was successful. Pilot Santosh Shah, co-pilot Prabhat Ghimire, and flight attendant Sirjana Humagain landed at the Balewa Airport, which was closed in 2002 after it was deemed unviable for commercial operations. Tara Air agreed to fly to Balewa after Baglung Municipality agreed to bear the loss if the airline company failed to find passengers for regular flights. Published on March 19th, Monday, 2018 3:48 PM 
  Kathmandu, March 19 The wife of the pilot killed in the US Bangla Airlines flight BS211 crash at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Nepal last week, is on life support at National Institute of Neurosciences and Hospital in Dhaka’s Sher-e-Bangla Nagar, a local media report says. According to the Daily Star Captain Abid Sultan’s wife, Afsana Khanam suffered a stroke at around 4:00am local time on Sunday. The Daily Star quoting Dr Uzzwal Kumar Mallick, head of department (ICU and HDU) of National Institute of Neurosciences and Hospital, said Khanam went into a coma soon after a surgery this morning. Her situation remains critical for the next 72 hours, Dr Mallick was quoted as saying. Captain Abid Sultan and all four cabin crew members of the US-Bangla flight died on the spot on March 12 accident. Published on March 19th, Monday, 2018 3:23 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 18 Vice-president Nanda Bahadur Pun has been re-elected for a second term in office. The Election Commission said that Pun’s was the only candidacy filed for the post and he was formally declared the winner the day the poll body was to make the final list of candidates public. The commission says Pun was elected to the post as per section 24 of the President and Vice-president Election Act. According to section 24, if only one candidate files nomination for President or Vice-president, he/she shall be declared the winner on the day the official list of candidates is to be published. Although the Nepali Congress fielded a candidate against President Bhandari, the opposition did not name anyone to challenge Pun, whose candidacy was backed by the Left Alliance. Published on March 18th, Sunday, 2018 8:58 PM 
 File: Yeti Airlines aircraft at the Tribhuvan International AirportKathmandu, March 18 A Yeti Airlines plane en route to Bhairahawa from Kathmandu has made a ‘hard landing’ at the destination airport. Airport authorities say that the pilots of the plane averted a big accident. The flight (9N AJC) was landing at the Gautam Budha Airport when its landing gear malfunctioned. The plane had departed at 16:40 hrs and was scheduled to land at Bhairahawa around 17:10 All 26 passengers and members of the cabin crew are safe, informed police. The airport had been closed for a while and flights diverted to Kathmandu. Published on March 18th, Sunday, 2018 8:43 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 18 Labour Minister Gokarna Bista has announced a slew of reforms within hours of taking charge of his ministry. The UML leader has directed officials to hear foreign employment-related grievances everyday and to make arrangement for the members of the public to apply for work permits from near their homes. The announcement comes as Nepal’s Department of Labour has been saying it can only conduct formal hearing of such grievances once a week. “The hearings will now be conducted daily. We cannot keep a victim waiting for a week,” said Minister Bista. According to government figures, around 15-20 people come to the department daily with foreign employment-related complaints. However, such cases would be heard only on Wednesdays. Similarly, the minister has directed officials to establish two centres in the Terai for prospective foreign employment seekers to get their permits issued. Minister Bista said that job seekers do not unnecessarily need to come to Kathmandu even for ‘small’ work. Published on March 18th, Sunday, 2018 4:27 PM 
     Kathmandu, March 16 Newly appointed Minister for Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Rabindra Adhikari on Friday said construction of the national pride project Nijgadh International Airport will be accelerated during his tenure in office. Assuming office on Friday, Adhikari directed concerned authorities to act accordingly in this regard. “The main priority of the country is the project. Its construction should be completed soon,” he said. He also said efforts would be made to form a secretariat within one month for preparations to celebrate 2020 as Visit Nepal Year. He identified the Indian and Chinese tourists as the mainstay of the industry in Nepal. Published on March 16th, Friday, 2018 10:38 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 16 Shiva Maya Tumbahamphe has been elected Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives. She garnered 201 votes while her closest rival Pushpa Bhusal (Gautam) got 58 votes.
Tumbahamphe from the CPN (UML) was backed by the Left Alliance, while Bhusal by the Nepali Congress. Maoist Centre leader Dev Prasad Gurung proposed Tumbahamphe for the post, while Bhusal by NC’s leader Dila Sangraula.
Speaker Krishna Bahadur Mahara announced the election of Tumbahamphe to the post at today’s meeting of the House of Representatives. A total of 259 parliament members took part in the election. Earlier, 61 parliamentarians voted in favour of Bhusal, while 201 parliamentarians voted against her. The House of Representatives meeting will meet next at 1 pm on April 25. Published on March 16th, Friday, 2018 10:32 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 16 Nepal’s newly-elected foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali says his government needs to take a balanced approach towards its relations with India and China. Gyawali, who is also the secretary of the UML, said that Nepal does not think ill about its neighbours and that is at the core of all of its policies. The minister, who assumed his office on Friday, said that there have been reports that Nepal has slanted towards China and there are times when there have been reports claiming that Nepal has slanted towards India. He added that Nepal needs to adopt a balanced approach towards it ties with both the countries. Gyawali, considered one of ideologues of the party, was appointed Prime Minister Oli’s special envoy to New Delhi during the blockade.  This is the first time in 11 years that he is taking charge as Minister. Gywali was minister for tourism in the Koirala Cabinet formed after the second People’s Movement. Published on March 16th, Friday, 2018 10:27 PM 
Kathmandu, March 16 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and Maoist Centre chief Pushpa Kamal Dahal have discussed a list of possible candidates to be inducted into the Cabinet. According to the UML’s Bishnu Paudel, the two leaders were expected to finalise the list of ministers, who are to be sworn in later in the afternoon. Paudel said that representatives from the Upendra Yadav-led Sanghiya Samajwadi Forum will also be inducted into the Cabinet, but it was still not clear whether they would be sworn in on Friday. Earlier, former Prime Minister Prachanda had discusssed the allocation of ministerial berths among the members of the ruling coalition with RJP leader Mahanta Thakur. Sources say that a meeting of RJP had to be called off so that Thakur could discuss the issue with Prachanda. The new ministers are to take their oat of office at 4 pm on Friday. Pradeep Gyawali and Raghubir Mahaseth are tipped to become new ministers from the UML. Other names have not been finalised yet. The Prime Minister has been authorised to pick his ministers from the party. Published on March 16th, Friday, 2018 2:23 PM 
 Update 15:34 PM The CIB has made public a list of people arrested in the case:   Kathmandu, March 16 Nepal Police’s Central Investigation Bureau raided Nepal Credit and Commerce Bank’s central office in Kathmandu and arrested 13 officials on Friday morning. According to sources, the raid was carried out as members of the board were conducting a meeting. Sources say that the bank had blipped CIB’s scanner after reports said that more than Rs 2 billion was embezzled during the merger between NCC Bank and Apex Development Bank a few months ago. It has been learnt that Apex Development Bank had issued a loan worth over Rs 2 billion by keeping a plot of land located on the banks of a river as collateral. However, the CIB has not made public the names of the officials arrested and the charges leveled against them.   Published on March 16th, Friday, 2018 2:07 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 15 Nepal beat  Papua New Guinea by six wickets in the World Cup Qualifiers playoff on Thursday. With the win, Nepal have qualified for the seventh-eighth place playoff on Saturday. The match played in Harare, Zimbabwe, saw Nepal chase 115 runs to register their second win in the tournament. Dipendra Singh Airee contributed the highest 50 runs while Arif Shekh managed 26 runs. Captain Paras Khadka made 20 runs while Rohit Kumar Poudel contributed three runs for the team. Earlier, Papua New Guinea scored 114 runs in 27.2 overs. Nepal are close to getting ODI status from the ICC with the team’s fate being decided by a match between Hong Kong and the Netherlands. If the Netherlands win, Nepal get ODI status. But if Hong Kong win, Nepal will have to play HK on Saturday and the winner will get ODI status. Published on March 15th, Thursday, 2018 7:33 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 15 Acting Chief Justice Deepak Raj Joshee, who took charge of the Supreme Court from Thursday, says his focus will be on restoring the people’s faith in the judiciary. Joshee, who was speaking to mediaperson after assuming office, admitted that the court had been dragged into controversy and the members of the general public were pointing fingers at the judiciary. He said, “We are to blame for what is going in that is why we need to improve. There’s no point criticisingÂ  others. Joshee assumed office a day after Judicial Council relieved Chief Justice Gopal Prasad Parajuli from his position saying that he ought to have retired in July. He said that it was wrong on the part of the Chief Justice to rectify errors related to his birth date on his own. Meanwhile, Attorney General Agni Kharel and Joshee have discussed the latest developments in the Prajuli case. Kharel is learnt to have advised Joshee create a controversy-free environment in the judiciary.   Published on March 15th, Thursday, 2018 2:37 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 15 US-Bangla Airlines says it will no longer fly from Dhaka to Kathmandu. The announcement comes days after an aircraft of the airliner with 71 passengers and crew members crashed inside the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu, killing at least 51. “Our flight operations between Dhaka and Kathmandu have been shut from today due to a shortage of aircraft,” Kamrul Islam, general manager (public relations) of the US-Bangla Airlines, told The Daily Star. The management says that there aren’t any immediate plans to re-start service on the route. The Bombardier Dash had plunged onto an empty field inside the airport and burst into flames on March 12. The aircraft had been flying to Kathmandu four times a week on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Sundays. Published on March 15th, Thursday, 2018 11:17 AM 
     Kathmandu, March 15 Justice Deepak Raj Joshee has taken charge as the head of the country’s judiciary, a day after the judicial council relieved Chief Justice Gopal Prasad Parajuli from his post. According to the Supreme Court’s website, as acting chief of the Supreme Court, Joshee, on Thursday morning allocated cases to the justices of the SC. The Judicial Council, on Wednesday, had issued a notice saying that an investigation had found that Prajuli ought to have retired in July last year and he is no longer the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. However, Parajuli insists that he is still the Chief Justice. The Supreme Court’s website has been updated to remove Parajuli’s name from the post. Published on March 15th, Thursday, 2018 10:41 AM 
 Kathmandu, March 14 Prime Minister KP Oli says he is open to the idea of amending the constitution if it strengthens national unity. Oli, who hosted a tea party for both federal and provincial lawmakers in Kathmandu, said that the constitution shall be amended if it becomes necessary to do so. “We will not amend the constitution if it affects our country and its sovereignty. But we will do it if it promotes national unity,” he added. Oli’s statement has been seen as his attempt to please the Sanghiya Forum and the Rastriya Janata Party, two parties that have been demanding an amendment to the constitution to meet the demands of Madhesh. During his 2015 stint as Prime Minister Oli had adopted a rigid stance on the amendment issue, irking the Madeshi parties. Following the election, Oli has been putting in effort to make amends with the Madheshi parties. The Prime Minister has held several rounds of negotiations with Forum Nepal and the RJP, and both parties voted in favour of the UML candidate during the Presidential Election. The two parties also voted in favour of Oli when he presented a motion of confidence in Parliament. The two parties have been saying that Prime Minister Oli has repeatedly committed to amend the constitution. The RJP has been saying that it will only join the Oli Cabinet after the constitution is amended. Published on March 14th, Wednesday, 2018 1:18 PM 
 The world-renowned British physicist, Steven Hawking has died aged 76. The physicist and author of A Brief History of Time breathed his last at his home in Cambridge. The whole world is mourning the death of the great scientist known for his contributions to the fields of cosmology, general relativity and quantum gravity, especially in the context of black holes. Regarded as one of the most brilliant theoretical physicists since Einstein, Hawking was a former Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge. A wide range of people from celebrities to scientists across the globe took to social media to offer their condolences and pay their respect:   Before we begin here is a brief history of the great man. “The greatest enemy of knowledge is not ignorance, it is the illusion of knowledge.” #StephenHawking pic.twitter.com/H6aIG6hzPE â€” HISTORY (@HISTORY) March 14, 2018  NASA were one of the first to pay tribute. Remembering Stephen Hawking, a renowned physicist and ambassador of science. His theories unlocked a universe of possibilities that we & the world are exploring. May you keep flying like superman in microgravity, as you said to astronauts on @Space_Station in 2014 pic.twitter.com/FeR4fd2zZ5 â€” NASA (@NASA) March 14, 2018  The people who will miss him the most are his colleagues and students as he was someone who always strove to make them better. His passing has left an intellectual vacuum in his wake. But it’s not empty. Think of it as a kind of vacuum energy permeating the fabric of spacetime that defies measure. Stephen Hawking, RIP 1942-2018. pic.twitter.com/nAanMySqkt â€” Neil deGrasse Tyson (@neiltyson) March 14, 2018  
 Kathmandu, March 14 The team commissioned to probe into the US-Bangla airplane crash in the capital on Monday has begun its work. “The probe has already started. The team will work in in collaboration with international research agencies, as it involves an international flight,” said Joint Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation Suresh Acharya at a press conference held by the Tribhuvan International Airport Civil Aviation Office on Tuesday. Former Secretary Yagya Prasad Gautam leads a six-member probe team formed by the government following the crash on Monday.
Acharya also shared that the aircraft manufacturer company in Canada and the Bangladeshi Civil Aviation Authorities have been informed about the matter. Though the team has not been given a deadline, it is likely to come up with its report in five months. Meanwhile, a discussion was also held between the Tourism Minister and Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh and Nepali authorities.
According to latest reports, the death toll in the plane crash has so far reached 49 while 22 of the injured are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the capital. RSS Published on March 14th, Wednesday, 2018 11:24 AM 
 Kathmandu, March 13 Indian ambassador to Nepal Manjeev Singh Puri and Defence Ministe Ishwor Pokhrel have discussed bilateral military ties and ways to make cooperation more effective in the future. Puri called on Pokhrel, who was recently appointed to the post, at his office at the Defence Ministry. During the meeting Puri also congratulated Pokhrel on his new stint. Minister Pokhrel told Puri that Nepal is thankful for all the capacity-enhancement support the Indian government has been providing to the Nepali Army. He hoped that similar support would continue in the future. Puri told Pokhrel that the Indian government recognises the role the Nepali Army has played at the international arena and New Delhi will continue its support to the Nepali Army.   Published on March 13th, Tuesday, 2018 7:46 PM 
Kathmandu, March 13 Activist Dr Govinda KC who has been demanding reforms in the medical education sector has postponed his hunger strike in view of the US-Bangla air crash tragedy, which also claimed doctors. Dr KC, who has been demanding that CJ Gopal Prasad Parajuli put in his papers, was to begin his hunger strike on Tuesday. The doctor, who welcomed the Supreme Court Justices’ decision to decline to hear cases, said that he will begin his hunger strike on next week. Dr KC wants Parliament to impeach CJ Parajuli, whom he accuses of colluding with the ‘medical mafia’. Published on March 13th, Tuesday, 2018 4:26 PM 
 File image: Supreme Court of NepalKathmandu, March 13 Six more justices at Nepal’s Supreme Court have boycotted hearings set by controversial Chief Justice Gopal Prasad Parajuli, a day after one of the senior-most justices accused the CJ Parajuli of working past the age of retirement. According to sources, Justices Hari Krishna Karki, Sapana Malla Pradahn, Biswambhar Shrestha, Anil Kumar Sinha, Ishswar Prasad Khatiwada and Ananda Moha Bhattarai declined to hear cases on Tuesday. Justice Choldendra Sumsher Rana on Monday said Chief Justice Gopal Prasad Parajuli ought to have retired in July last year but still continues to work. Chief Justice Gopal Prasad Parajuli had convened a full bench to look into a contempt of court against Kantipur Publications. Parajuli was to hear the case along with justices Om Prakash Mishra, Deepak Kumar Karki, Kedar Prasad Chalise, Sarada Prasad Ghimire, Tej Bhadar KC and Justice Rana. Following Ranaâ€™s refusal to sit alongside Parajuli on Monday, the hearing in the case had been postponed. According to sources, when proceedings were about to begin in the hearing, Rana stood up and read out a statement. In the statement, he had said that Parajuli ought to have retired in July last year. Parajuli has been dragged into controversy after reports surfaced claiming that he forged his education certificates to lower his age. His decisions in cases related to medical colleges have also been controversial.   Published on March 13th, Tuesday, 2018 3:56 PM 
 Update 15:15 hrs Bangladeshi Minister for Civil Aviation and Tourism AKM Shahjahan Kamal and Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Shahriar Alam, along with senior officials of Civil Aviation Authority, have arrived in Kathmandu.
TIA Spokesperson Premnath Thakur told RSS that the kin of Bangladeshi nationals killed in the crash are accompanying the ministers. Kathmandu, March 13 Bangladesh is sending two senior ministers to Kathmandu, where 49 people, including 26 Bangladeshi nationals died in an air crash on Monday afternoon. According to Nepal’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Bangladesh’s Minister for Civil Aviation and Tourism AKM Shahjahan Kamal and Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Shahriar Alam will come to Kathmandu on Tuesday. Details of the visit are yet to be made public. According to Bharat Raj Paudel, the ministry’s spokesperson, the kin of Bangladeshis who lost their lives in the crash will also accompany the ministers. Following the crash, Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli had called his Bangladeshi counterpart on Monday to express his condolence over the death of Bangladeshi nationals in the crash. Published on March 13th, Tuesday, 2018 1:12 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 13 Nepal’s bankers’ association and NIC Asia Bank have reached an agreement to lower interest rates on fixed deposits, three days after NBA members decided not to carry out inter-bank transactions with NIC Asia. The association had said that NIC Asia indulged in an unfair practice by hiking interest rate above what was agreed among members of the association. Following the decision, NIC Asia could neither borrow from or lend to any of the 27 major banks in the country. An agreement to end the sanctions was reached following a meeting between officials from the association and NIC Asia on Monday evening and shall be implemented from Friday. According to sources, NRB officials mediated in the meeting. NIC Asia, last week had announced that it would provide 12 per cent interest on fixed deposits–one percentage point above the ceiling fixed by the association. The bank said interest rates should be determined based on the market dynamics and bankers should not tamper with it. “NIC Asia will now offer 8 per cent interest on saving and 10 per cent on fixed deposits,” the bank said in a statement. Published on March 13th, Tuesday, 2018 12:57 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 12 Nepal’s ruling party, the CPN UML, which commands a three-fourth majority in the lower house, has named Ganesh Timalsina as its candidate for National Assembly chair. A meeting of the party’s top brass on Monday decided to field Timalsena, a member of Politburo, the for the post. The party c0-coordinator of Province 4 was picked by the UML, secretary Krishna Gopal Shrestha told Onlinekhabar. According to party sources, Parshuram MEghi Gurung was also in the race. Shrestha’s candidacy is expected to be backedÂ by the CPN Maoist Centre and other allies of the ruling coalition. It is almost certain that Shrestha will be elected to the post. Meanwhile, Nepali Congress sources say that party is not going to field anyone against Shrestha. Candidates are to file their nomination for the post today.   Published on March 12th, Monday, 2018 12:51 PM 
Kathmandu, March 11 Rastriya Janata Party, which has been demanding that the constitution be amended to meet Madhesh-based parties’ demands, says it will support the Oli government, but it won’t join the Cabinet until the constitution is amended. Speaking in Parliament on Sunday, Yadav, who is also a member of the party’s presidium, said that his party was ready to work with the new government. Yadav urged the Prime Minister to commit to amending the constitution. “We have faith in the Prime Minister, we won’t sign any agreement,” he added. Yadav urged the Prime Minister to convene an all-party meeting so that all parties that support Oli can form a common stance on pertinent issues. “The RJP will vote in favour of Oli, but well not join the Cabinet. We’ll think about it when issues such as constitution amendment are resolved,” Yadav said. Published on March 11th, Sunday, 2018 7:07 PM 
Kathmandu, March 11 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has won a historic vote of confidence in Nepal’s newly-formed lower House of Parliament.Â Oli, who was appointed to the post on February 15, has received the backing of all political parties, except the main opposition, the Nepali Congress and Nepal Majdoor Kishan Party. During the vote on the confidence motion in Parliament on Sunday, 208 of the 268 MPs present in the lower House meeting supported Oli’s appointment as Prime Minister. Former Prime Minister Baburam Bhattarai, the lone MP from Naya Shakti Party, did not vote on the motion as he is out of the country. Earlier, Prime Minister Oli had called on all political parties to support the government. But the main opposition, the Nepali Congress said it would not vote in favour of Oli and it would play the role of an effective opposition. According to the new constitution, the Prime Minister needs to win a confidence motion in Parliament within six months after his appointment. Published on March 11th, Sunday, 2018 6:55 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 11 The Mayor of a town in western Nepal where a 20-year-old woman was brutally assaulted on Thursday will face action from his party, the CPN UML. The ruling party has also decided to seek clarification from Ghoda Ghodi Municipality Mayor Mamata Prasad Chaudhary who remained a mute spectator even as ‘witch doctor’ Ram Bahadur Chaudhary assaulted 20-year-old Radha Chaudhary for over six hours. “The party has already sought a verbal clarfication from the Mayor. We will now set-up a committee to investigate the incident,” UML Province 2 chief Jhapat Rawal told Onlinekhabar. Rawal said that the party’s district committee had been ordered to investigate the incident. According to reports, not only did Mayor Chaudhary fail to act in time to save the victim, he put pressure on local police to release the main suspect in the case. Rawal said that the Distritct Administration has been urged to take action against everyone involved in the case. Meanwhile, Mayor Chaudhary denies he was involved in the case. Published on March 11th, Sunday, 2018 4:51 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 9 The Rastriya Janata Party (RJP), Nepal, has decided to support Bidya Devi Bhandari of the Left Alliance in the presidential election.
A meeting of RJP Nepal’s presidium held today decided to vote for Bhandari, RJP’s General Secretary Keshav Jha said. He also added that the talks between the Left Alliance and RJP for the Madheshi party’s participation in the incumbent government were positive. As the talks of the RJP Nepal with the leaders of CPN (UML) and Maoist Centre heading towards positive direction, the RJP is also backing Bhandari in presidential poll.
Incumbent President Bidya Devi Bhandari and Laxmi Rai are vying for the post of the President in the election scheduled for March 13. Published on March 9th, Friday, 2018 9:11 PM 
 Kailali, March 9 MP Resham Chaudhary, who is one of the accused in the 2015 Tikapur Killings, has been admitted to hospital. Chaudhary, who has been on hunger strike for six days, was rushed to Seti Zonal Hospital on Friday after his health condition deteriorated. Kailali District Prison’s acting jailor Bhakta Bhadur Bista said Bishram Kushmi, Laxman Tharu, Kishan Chaudhary, Ram Prasad Chaudhary and Sangam Chaudhary–the others accused in the incident have also gone on hunger strike and their health condition is also serious. The jailbirds, including Chaudhary have put forward a three-point demand. They are demanding that Chaudhary, who won Kailali-1 seat in House of Representatives, be given his certificate and that he be sworn in. They are also demanding that they be freed on bail. Published on March 9th, Friday, 2018 9:02 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 9 Nepal’s bankers’ association says 27 of its member banks will not carry out transactions with NIC Asia, one of the country’s leading commercial banks, after it raised interest rate on fixed deposits. The association said  that the bank indulged in unfair practice by hiking interest rate above what was agreed among members of the association. Following the decision, NIC Asia can neither borrow from or lend to any of the 27 major banks in the country. NIC Asia, on Friday, had announced that it would provide 12 per cent interest on fixed deposits–one percentage point above the ceiling fixed by the association. The bank says interest rates should be determined based on the market dynamics and bankers should not tamper with it. “Interest rates are to be determined by demand and supply in an open economy,” the bank’s acting CEO Roshan Kumar Neupane told Onlinekhabar. He also added that the association cannot dictate interest rates. The decision will not affect account holders’ inter-bank transactions but it will make it difficult for NIC Asia to receive short-term loans from other banks. NIC Asia will now have to go the Central Bank to get money. It will have to pay an interest of 7 per cent at a time when other banks are carrying out transactions at interest rates as low as 4.4 per cent.   Published on March 9th, Friday, 2018 7:01 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 9 Finance Minister Yubraj Khatiwada has been sworn in as a member of the National Assembly. Khatiwada was nominated to the post by President Bidya Devi Bhandari upon the recommendation of the KP Oli Cabinet. However, his swearing in had been delayed after the Supreme Court issued a stay on his appointment. During the last days of the Deuba government, the Nepali Congress had recommended three people to the President seeking their appointment as National Assembly members. However, the President had not approved their appointment. When the Oli government took charge, the Cabinet recommended a fresh set of MPs. This time around, the President accepted the nomination without hesitation. A petition was filed at the Supreme Court demanding that the President approve the recommendation made by the Deuba government. Hearing the petition, the court had issued a stay on the appointment of the three MPs, including Khatiwada. The court recently vacated the stay, paving the way for Khatiwada to take his oath of office. Khatiwada was appointed Minister of Finance even before he took oath as an MP. The UML nominated Khatiwada for MP as the constitution says that only lawmakers can be appointed ministers. If a non-MP is appointed minister, he has to become an MP within six months of his appointment. Meanwhile, two other MPs who had been recommended by the Oli government have also been sworn in.   Published on March 9th, Friday, 2018 12:43 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 9 Former Deputy Prime Minister Krishna Bahadur Mahara is poised to take charge as Speaker of the House of Representatives after his party  the CPN Maoist Centre decided to back his candidacy for the post. A meeting to the Maoist top brass on Friday morning decided to field Mahara for the job, which the UML wanted for former Speaker Subas Nembang. According to sources, UML leaders close to Prime Minister KP Oli had lobbied hard for Nembang even till Friday morning. However, the Maoists said they can’t reverse their decision to field Mahara. Sources say that Maoist leaders Onsari Gharti, Dev Gurung, Lekhraj Bhatta and Giriraj Mani Pokhrel were also in contention for the post. The Parliament Secretariat is accepting nominations for the post from 10 am to 1 pm today. Also read: Oli-Prachanda bound by gentlemen’s agreement Published on March 9th, Friday, 2018 11:32 AM 
 Kathmandu, March 8 A former PLA man has been detained in Kathmandu for campaigning for a bandh on Friday and Saturday, police said, Ranjit Gurung, who claims to be the leader of a group of former PLAs, was detained in New Road, Kathmandu, authorities said.Â SSSP Biswaraj Pokhrel told Onlinekhabar that he was held because he was spreading panic among business people in New Road. Local businessmen had called the police after Pokhrel started telling business owners that his group had called for a strike on Friday. Various groups of former rebel fighters have agitating demanding that their role in the Maoist conflict be recognised by the state. The PLAs were rehabilitated under a ‘golden handshake’ scheme.   Published on March 8th, Thursday, 2018 8:47 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 8 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli and his Left Alliance partner Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ are bound by a gentlemen’s agreement to elect Bidya Devi Bhandari as President and Nanda Bahadur Pun Vice-president, it has been revealed. A Maoist leader close to Prachanda says that the two leaders had agreed to retain Bhandari and Pun to facilitate the implementation of the new constitution. That was why, despite stiff opposition from the members of the UML standing committee, Oli was adamant that the UML field Bhandari. Following reports of a row between the UML leaders over who gets to become the head of state,Â Prachanda is learnt to have told his party’s top brass that Oli was acting in accordance with an agreement with him. Maoist leader Barsa Man Pun said that his party wanted to retain the President and the Vice-president because the country was faced with a political transition. He said that changing the President and Vice-president will add more pressure to the treasury. It is learnt that Maoist leader Amik Sherchan wanted to contest the election for Vice-president. But Prachanda also does not want to violate the gentlemen’s agreement. That is why Prachanda has been insisting that his party retain former Maoist leader Pun as Vice-president. The CPN-Maoist Centre is to formally announce Pun’s candidacy for Vice-president in a few days. According to Nepal’s constitution, the President and the Vice-president must not be of the same gender. That is why the process to elect the Vice-president will begin only after the President is elected. Published on March 8th, Thursday, 2018 2:54 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 7 Preparations for the Secondary Education Examination, which is to begin on March 22 has been completed, officials say. The Examination Controller’s Office, Sanothimi, says that around 480,0000 students are preparing for their SEE this year. Examination Controller Ambika Prasad Regmi informed that all necessary preparation required for the examination was over. The task of dispatching questions and answer sheets to the districts has been already done, he added. A total 485,000 students (452,000 regular and 33,000 exempted and technical) are taking the SEE this year. Examination Controller Regmi shared that a total of 1,956 examination centres have been set up for the SEE across the country.
The examination will be held from 8.00 am to 11.00 am. RSS Published on March 7th, Wednesday, 2018 10:36 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 7 The Supreme Court has paved the way for threeÂ  National Assembly MPs nominated by the new government to take their oath of office as it vacated a stay on their swearing-in. The court had earlier stayed the appointment of Yubaraj Khatiwada. who is also the Finance Minister, Ram Narayan Bidari and Bimala Paudyal after a petition was filed against their nomination. The trio was nominated by the new KP Oli government, which overturned the Deuba’s government to nominate a different set of people to the Upper House. Meanwhile, the court has decided to transfer the case to the Constitutional Bench as some of the questions raised by the petition are related to the provisions of the constitution.   Published on March 7th, Wednesday, 2018 10:31 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 7 The Nepali Congress will field a candidate in the upcoming elections, knowing all well that a victory for the party is next to impossible. The Left Alliance has chosen Bidya Devi Bhandari as its candidate, and it has enough MPs in both the Houses to secure the post for her. However, the Nepali Congress is fielding its candidate in the election. The party’s General Secretary Sashank Koirala says NC has chosen its candidate for the race to send a message that it does not back Bidya Devi Bhandari for President. He says that his party could have abstained from the elections if the Left Alliance had selected someone else for the position. Koirala said that President Bhandari did not play the role of a ‘guardian’ during the nomination of National Assembly members. He was referring to the President’s decision to withhold the nomination of National Assembly members made by then Sher Bahadur Deuba government. Published on March 7th, Wednesday, 2018 3:19 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 7 President Bidya Devi Bhandari has filed her candidacy for the upcoming presidential election. Bhandari, who is the widow of UML stalwart Madan Bhandari, came to the Parliament Secretariat to register her candidacy. Her candidacy has been backed by the UML and the Maoist Centre (allies of the Left Alliance). The MPs who have proposed Bhandari’s candidacy are: Madhav Kumar Nepal, Bhim Rawal, Ishwor Pokhrel, Subas Nembang and Onsari Gharti. Similarly, the MPs who have backed the candidacy are: Ram Bahadur Thapa, Bishnu Paudel, Gokarna Bista, Bhanubhakta Dhakal and Rabindra Adhikari. Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was alongside President Bhandari when she filed her candidacy. Other leaders were also present. However, former Prime Minister Jhalanath Khanal, who wanted to be named the party’s candidate for the post, did not come to the secretariat. Published on March 7th, Wednesday, 2018 2:49 PM 
  Kathmandu, March 7 The Congress has decided to field former MP Kumari Laxmi Rai as its candidate for President. A meeting of the party’s top brass in Sanepa on Thursday morning decided to field Rai as its candidate for the top post. Rai entered active politics in 1973. She is the daughter of Nepali Congress former leader Dewan Singh Rai, who was assassinated during the Panchayat days. The Nepali Congress had earlier hinted that it would field Man Bahadur Biswhokarma as its candidate for the race. But after the UML selected a woman candidate, the opposition party also decidedÂ  to pick a woman candidate. The UML and its Left Alliance ally the CPN Maoist Centre command a majority in both Houses of Parliament and Rai does not stand a chance at winning the elections. It is all but certain that Bhandari will be re-elected as President on March 13. Published on March 7th, Wednesday, 2018 11:53 AM 
 Kathmandu, March 6 Former Finance Minister and Nepali Congress leader Ram Sharan Mahat says that investors do not trust the Left Alliance and its government when it comes to matters related to the economy. Mahat’s comments come as more than Rs 45 billion was wiped off of Nepal’s stock exchange, NEPSE, recently, allegedly due to comments aired by the Finance Minister. “Following the elections, the share market has lost 250 points,” Mahat told Onlinekhabar. “This is a clear indication that investors do not trust the government,” he added. “The mood in the share market is indicative of how the market looks at the government, and at the moment it is not positive.” Published on March 6th, Tuesday, 2018 4:27 PM 
Kathmandu, March 6 China Three Gorges Corporation, which signed a joint venture agreement with Nepal Electricity Authority to develop the West Seti Hydro Project in November but later objected to the terms of the deal, has hinted that it is still interested in the undertaking. This comes after the Investment Board of Nepal wrote to Three Gorges a few days ago saying that past agreements could be cancelled if the Chinese company is no longer interested in the project. Three Gorges, after receiving the letter from IBN, sent its representatives to hold talks with the board on Sunday and the NEA on Monday. NEA Managaing Director Kulman Ghising said that Three Gorges had been demanding that the power purchase rate for the project be revised. He said that Three Gorges has now hinted that it would take up the 750 MW reservoir-type project even without a revision to the rate. According to the NEA, the power utility has offered Rs 12.40 per unit of electricity during the dry season and Rs 10 during the wet season. ” Meanwhile, the IBN has asked Three Gorges to present a work plan for the project. “We have asked them to present their workplan. If their plan is not convincing, we will scrap past agreements reached with the company,” an IBN source told Onlinekhabar adding that it has been six years since Three Gorges was issued a license to work on the project. Sources say that Three Gorges sent its representatives to Kathmandu to lobby for better rates for West Seti. The company believes that the Left government could listen to its demands and hike the power purchase rate. Published on March 6th, Tuesday, 2018 3:56 PM 
   Kathmandu, March 6 Elections for National Assembly chair will be hold next week, the House’s senior-most member Taradevi Bhatta, who is currently presiding over the meetings said. According to Bhatta, a meeting of the National Assembly on Tuesday decided to hold the elections at 1 pm on March 14 in accordance with section 6(1) of the interim regulations of the National Assembly. Bhatta has instructed Parliament Secretariat’s Chief Secretary Manohar Prasad Bhatta to prepare a schedule for the electoral process. Tuesday’s meeting has also formed a nine-member committee to frame new regulations to govern the proceedings of the upper House. MPs Ganesh Prasad Timalsina, Parsu Ram Meghi Gurung, Dil Kumari Rawal, Surendra Raj Pandey, Radheshyam Adhikari, Dina Nath Sharma, Jeevan Budha, Brijesh Chandra Lal and Pramil Kumari are members of the new committee. Published on March 6th, Tuesday, 2018 3:40 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 5 The Pashupati Area Development Trust is set to reconstruct the Jayabageswori Temple, one of the holy structures of the World Heritage site. PADT decided to reconstruct the temple, located just outside the core Pashupati area, on its own after the donor who signed an MoU with the Trust for the project did not start work 34 months after the earthquake, said PADT member-secretary Dr Pradeep Dhakal. “The donor who took responsibility for the temple’s reconstruction has sought that the agreement be terminated. Dialogue is underway with the National Reconstruction Authority (NRA) in this connection. The PADT will begin the reconstruction work within this fiscal year,” he said. It may be noted that the PADT had given its approval to Adventure Tours and Travels’ Kalyan Sharma toÂ  rebuild the within a month after the April 2015 Earthquake. RSS Published on March 5th, Monday, 2018 7:58 PM 
Kathmandu, March 5 Nepal’s ruling party CPN UML will select its candidate for President on Tuesday, and it is likely that the party will back former leader and current President Bidya Devi Bhandari for the post. The election for President is scheduled for March 13. A meeting the party’s standing committee is to take place at the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar at 4pm on Tuesday to decide the party’s candidate for the post. According to sources, UML leader and former Prime Minister Jhalanath Khanal has also expressed interest to contest the election. However, with support from Prime Minister Oli, Bhandari is likely to be re-elected to the post. As Bhandari’s candidacy is also likely to be backed by CPN Maoist Centre, she is expected to win by a considerable margin. Published on March 5th, Monday, 2018 5:02 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 5 Pakistani Prime Minister Sahid Khaqan Abbasi landed in Kathmandu on Monday afternoon to kick-start his two-day official visit to Nepal. Abbasi, along with his 30-member delegation, was received by Finance Minister Yubaraj Khatiwada at the Tribhuvan International Airport in Kathmandu. Prime Minister Abbasi will be accorded a guard of honour at the Tundikhel grounds at 5 pm. Prime Minister KP Shama Oli will hold a bilateral meeting with the visiting Prime Minister and exchange views on matters of mutual interest. He will also host a dinner in honour of the visiting dignitary, says the ministry. Upon completion of the visit, the Prime Minister of Pakistan will leave for Islamabad on  March 6. According to Radio Pakistan, Prime Minister Abbasi’s visit is expected further expand and strengthen bilateral relations in different fields including trade, education, tourism, defence and people to people contacts. Ways to reinvigorate SAARC as an important regional organisation will also be discussed. Earlier, the Ambassador of Nepal Sewa Lamsal Adhikari had called on Abbasi on Friday and conveyed the Nepalis leadership’s welcome message to him. Published on March 5th, Monday, 2018 4:36 PM 
Kathmandu, March 5 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli is in the mood to expand his Cabinet only after the presidential election scheduled for next week, a close ally in the ruling party says. Although Oli has held a series of negotiations within the party and outside of it, he is not yet ready to announce the names of the new ministers, especially at a time when negotiations with the Upendra Yadav-led Forum Nepal have reached a delicate state. Oli, who was appointed Prime Minister on February 15, first inducted Politburo members Lal Babu Pandit and Tham Maya Thapa into his Cabinet and then added two more ministers each from the UML and the Maoist Centre. Election for President is taking place on March 13. It is likely that that the Cabinet will get its full shape only after the election, said UML Deputy General Secretary and former Finance Minister Bishnu Paudel. He added that negotiations are also on to get the RJP to join the ruling coalition. According to an agreement between the UML and the Maoist Centre (the two allies of the Left Alliance), UML is to get 17 ministries while the Maoists are to get seven. However, the math became complicated after Forum-Nepal and the RJP hinted that they to want to come to power in the centre. Published on March 5th, Monday, 2018 12:26 PM 
    Pokhara, March 4 The Cabinet of Province 4 has recommended Advocate Rajendra Ghimire for the post of chief attorney. According to provincial government spokesperson Ram Sharan Basnet, Ghimire was recommended to the post as per Article 160 of the constitution. Similarly, the government has given its nod to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Planning’s proposal to prepare procedures for the financial management of the province. Published on March 4th, Sunday, 2018 7:14 PM 
 File: Rajendra Khadgi Stunt coordinator Rajendra Khadgi, who has been accused of being involved in human trafficking, has been sent to police custody as prosecutors gather evidence to file a criminal case against him. A local court ordered that Khadgi remain in custody so that investigation can continue. According to police, Khadgi, who has been accused of trafficking Nepalis to Korea, has been sent to the Central Jail in Sundhara. Police say that 12 people had accompanied Khadgi to Korea where the group was to perform at a cultural event. But only two of them returned to Nepal. Khadgi allegedly took money from the 10 people to get them to Korea, where they would hide from authorities and work illegally. Police started an investigation into the case after the Nepali embassy in South Korea informed authorities about the case. Khadgi confessed to police that he took the ten people to Korea in return for money. He had said that he did not know it was a crime. Published on March 4th, Sunday, 2018 7:02 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 4 Pakistani Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi is arriving in Kathmandu on Monday to kick-start his two-day official visit to Nepal. During the visit, Abbasi will call on President Bidya Devi Bhandari, according to a statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Prime Minister K.P. Shama Oli will hold a bilateral meeting with the visiting Prime Minister and exchange views on matters of mutual interest. He will also host a dinner in honour of the visiting dignitary, says the ministry. Upon completion of the visit, the Prime Minister of Pakistan will leave for Islamabad on  March 6, adds the Ministry. According to Radio Pakistan, Prime Minister Abbasi’s visit is expected further expand and strengthen bilateral relations in different fields including trade, education, tourism, defence and people to people contacts. Ways to reinvigorate SAARC as an important regional organisation will also be discussed. Earlier, the Ambassador of Nepal Sewa Lamsal Adhikari had called on Abbasi on Friday and conveyed the Nepalis leadership’s welcome message to him. Published on March 4th, Sunday, 2018 3:01 PM 
 Kathmandu, Nineteen-year-old, leftarm orthodox spinner, Lalit Narayan Rajbanshi has made his international debut for Nepal as the side play  Zimbabwe in their first match of World Cup Qualifiers in Bulawayo. Rajbansi was handed the national team’s cap by batting coach Umesh Patwal. During the warm-up match against the UAE ahead of the tournament, Rajbansi had claimed two wickets, conceding 30 runs. Rajbansi had caught the eye of the selectors following his performance in the 2017 Everest Premier League. The young spinner played for Lalitpur Patriots. He picked up seven wickets in as many matches. Published on March 4th, Sunday, 2018 1:35 PM 
Kathmandu, March 4 The Rastriya Janata Party’s Mahanta Thakur will administer the oath of office and secrecy to fellow members of Parliament later today, officials say. The 75-year-old was given the responsibility after fellow party leader Mahendra Raya Yadav informed the Federal Parliament Secretariat that could not be present at the oath-taking ceremony. Yadav said that he took the decision as a show of respect to the House. Although official records show that Yadav is older than Thakur, in reality, Yadav is around 10 years younger than the veteran Madheshi leader. The oath ceremony for members of both the house is taking place later today, said Bharat Raj Gautam, spokesperson for the Parliament Secretariat. The first meeting of the assemblies will take place tomorrow. Thakur, who is also the coordinator of the RJP, will first take his oath of office and secrecy from President Bidya Devi Bhandari amid a function at Office of the President. As per regulations, the eldest member of Parliament also chairs the meeting until a Speaker is elected. Published on March 4th, Sunday, 2018 1:07 PM 
Kathmandu, March 2 Nepali Congress (NC) leader Krishna Prasad Sitaula has said the party is in the need of change. Speaking at a programme organised by the NC Kathmandu Constituency-6, he predicted that the party’s existence would be threatened if it failed to adjustment with the changing times. Sitaula added than an ideological discussion was necessary within the party. He alleged that the policies and strategies adopted by the party and the opposing party’s success in capitalising on the Congress’ failure translated into defeat in the elections. He added that the communist parties of Nepal were working just for partisan interests and did not care about the welfare of the nation. Similarly, NC central member Pradip Poudel said a weak mindset was one of the reasons behind party’s defeat in the election.
Lawmaker Bhimsendas Pradhan stressed on the need to give opportunities to a ‘new face’ to serve as the party’s parliamentary leader. Published on March 2nd, Friday, 2018 4:17 PM 
 Kathmandu, March 2 The Nepali Congress will elect its parliamentary party leader on Monday. According to the party, Nepali Congress lawmakers who wish to contest the election will have to deposit Rs 41,000 at the PP’s office. The election process will begin on Sunday evening, says the Chinkaji Shrestha-led committee assigned to carry out the task. Candidates have been informed to file their nominations between 6-7 pm. The party will then publish the initial list of candidates at 8 pm the same day. Any candidate who wants to withdraw can do so by 8.15 am on Monday. The final list of candidates will be published at 8.30 am and voting will take place betwee 10 am to 1 pm at the PP’s office in Singha Durbar. Former Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba is likely to file his candidacy for the post. Prakash Man Singh is expected to challenge him.     Published on March 2nd, Friday, 2018 3:09 PM 
Kathmandu, March 2 Former Prime Minister and CPN Maoist Centre chief Pushpa Kamal Dahal says that the Left Alliance and Sanghiya Samajwadi Forum Nepal have already reached a powersharing and deal. Dahal, who was speaking at a programme in Achham, said that the constitution will be amended to meet the demands of the demands of Forum-Nepal after it joins the KP Oli government. “We have already reached a deal with Sanghiya Samajwadi Forum,” Dahal told mediapersons. The party will join the government under the leadership of Upendra Yadav he said. “The constitution will be amended to address the demands raised during the Madhesh movement, and that will be done througgh consensus,” Dahal said. Dahal, whose party forms one-half of the Left Alliance, said that the UML and the Maoist Centre will announce their merger in the second week of March after the two inter-party committees formed to draw the blueprint for the merger, submit their reports on March 8. Published on March 2nd, Friday, 2018 2:40 PM 
Kathmandu, March 1 A meeting held between the left alliance, consisting the CPN-UML and the CPN-Maoist Centre, and the Upendra Yadav-led Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal could not make any concrete result to bring the Madhesh-centric party into the government. Top leaders of the three parties had held the meeting at the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar to forge an understanding. Though the leaders agreed on amending the constitution to address genuine concerns of all parties on the basis of mutual understanding, there was no understanding about the number of ministries the Forum would get in the government. Whereas the Forum demanded three ministries, the left alliance was ready to give only two, according to a leader who participated in the meeting. Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has postponed giving the full shape to his coalition government with the hope that Forum will also join the team. Published on March 1st, Thursday, 2018 4:06 PM 
Parsa, March 1 A youth sustained critical injuries when he was shot by an unidentified armed group in Birgunj of Parsa district on Wednesday night. Umesh Prasad Chaurasiya (32) of Ranighat in Birgunj Metropolitan City-13 was seriously injured after being shot by the armed group before Ratobangala nearby the District Police Office at 9:30 pm. He was rushed to Narayani Sub-Regional Hospital in Birgunj first and taken to Bir Hospital, Kathmandu for further treatment after the complications. Injured Chaurasiya had internal bleeding and that remained uncontrolled so the case was referred to Bir Hospital, said doctors involved in his treatment. Search for the shooters is underway, police added. The incident occurred nearby the District Police Office has made the locals fearful. RSS Published on March 1st, Thursday, 2018 3:35 PM 
Kathmandu, March 1 The Metropolitan Police Range in Kathmandu has arrested 27 people who were throwing water balloons at pedestrians on the pretext of celebrating Holi. SSP Bishwa Raj Pokharel tells Onlinekhabar that law enforcers have arrested 10 from the Kalimati area, two from Gongabu area and five from Bafal area. The arrestees will be punished under the Public Offence Act, according to police. To make sure that Holi is observed in a decent manner, police have been mobilised in 106 places around the Kathmandu Valley. There are 20 mobile police teams which are roaming around the Valley looking for offenders. Blocking the roads to play Holi is also not permitted and if anyone is found doing so, they will be taken under control, police have warned. Those riding two-wheelers without helmets and driving licence will also be punished along with those who ride vehicles under the influence of alcohol. Meanwhile, a total of 130 vehicles have been taken by the police as of 2 pm. Published on March 1st, Thursday, 2018 2:48 PM 
Kathmandu, March 1 The left alliance of CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre is holding another round of meeting with Upendra Yadav-led Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal on Thursday also. The two sides have expedited talks for last few days in a bid to convince the Madhesh-centric party to join UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli-led government. A meeting of UML Chairman Oli, Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal and Yadav had held a meeting till late evening yesterday, but it could not yield any concrete result. Oli’s confidant and UML Secretary Pradeep Gyawali says the talks held so far are positive; therefore, the leaders are sitting for another round of meeting at 9 am today. The meeting will take place at the PM’s residence in Baluwatar. Oli has postponed giving the full shape to his coalition government with the hope that Forum will also join the team. The party has demanded that the left parties agree on the proposal for consitution amendment as a precondition for being a part of the government. Published on March 1st, Thursday, 2018 9:06 AM 
Kathmandu, February 28 The Madhesh-centric Rastriya Janata Party Nepal has demanded that the government immediately take initiatives for the constitution amendment. Whereas the ruling left alliance has expedited talks with another Madhesh-centric party, Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal, about its participation in the government, the Mahantha Thakur-led party demanded that the government immediately create an environment for the amendment. The RJPN argues that the amendment is a must to address demands raised by Madheshis, Tharus, Janajatis, marginalised groups, Muslims and Dalits. The party has accused the government of not being serious about the issue. Likewise, the party demanded that the government withdraw cases filed against its cadres and release cadres arrested during different protests.   Published on February 28th, Wednesday, 2018 4:33 PM 
Kathmandu, February 28 The government of Japan has decided to provide financial assistance of USD 71,581, equivalent to approximately Rs 7.4 million, to the All Nepal Football Association. The grant will be used for the construction and improvement of facilities at Satdobato football stadium under the Grant Assistance for Cultural Grassroots(GCGP) project and Japan’s ‘Sport for Tomorrow’ initiative. “This gesture matters a lot to us and I am grateful to the government of Japan for assisting us. As we are reconstructing our national stadium, this financial assistance will help us improve facilities in the ANFA complex which currently hosts international matches,” said Narendra Shrestha, President of ANFA. Masashi Ogawa, Ambassador of Japan to Nepal, and Dhirendra Kumar Pradhan, General Secretary of ANFA, signed and exchanged the memorandum of understanding for the grant today. ANFA says it will also use the grant to renovate the players’ locker room and furnish the technical training room and office space. It will also build toilet facilities for the audience and fans within the stadium premises. Upgrading of facilities at Satdobato will add to the convenience of sportswomen and men and will also contribute toward improving ANFA’s services and training programme, the national football governing body claims. Published on February 28th, Wednesday, 2018 4:21 PM 
Kathmandu, February 28 The Bhojpur District Court in Province 1 of Nepal has issued an arrest warrant for Nepal Communist Party General Secretary Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’. The fringe Maoist party has been carrying out various disruptive activities in many parts of the country. The warrant has been sent to Biplav’s home district in Kapilvastu and the District Police Office there has pasted the notice on the wall of his house in local Shivanagar Municipality, according to police. “We have already heeded the order,” says DSP Narendra Kumar Karki.   Published on February 28th, Wednesday, 2018 2:07 PM 
Kathmandu, February 28 Newly appointed Minister for Home Affairs Ram Bahadur Thapa has visited the Nepal Police headquarters in Naxal of Kathmandu today. On the occasion, senior police officials including Inspector General Prakash Aryal briefed the Minister about security situations of the country. They also updated the Minister about the national police organisation’s organisational structure. Meanwhile, Thapa also directed the officials to assure people of peace and security. While assuming office two days ago, Thapa had said he would make Nepal’s securities agencies a model in the world. Published on February 28th, Wednesday, 2018 11:17 AM 
Kathmandu, February 28 The Federal Parliament Secretariat has called an all-party meeting to finalise the agenda of first joint meeting of the House of Representatives and the National Assembly. Upon a recommendation from the Cabinet, President Bidya Devi Bhandari has summoned the joint meeting for March 5. Parliament spokesperson Bharat Raj Gautam says one representative from each of five national parties has been called for the meeting scheduled for 2 pm at the Parliament building today. The parties which have achieved the status of national party from recent elections are CPN-UML, Nepali Congress, CPN-Maoist Centre, Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal and Rastriya Janata Party Nepal. It is expected that the agenda of the first meeting will include reading out of the letter sent from the President, observing one-minute silence in honour of martyrs, and endorsement of an interim working procedure. Likewise, a lawmaker from each party will address the meeting. Published on February 28th, Wednesday, 2018 10:26 AM 
Kathmandu, February 27 CPN-UML Vice-Chairman Bhim Rawal says his party has not made any decision about who will contest the presidential election slated for March 13. He says no discussion has been held about it neither in the UML nor with the coalition partner CPN-Maoist Centre. “We will discuss it in the Standing Committee as well as with the Maoist Centre,” Rawal told journalists at an interaction in Kathmandu today, “The final decision, however, is yet to be made.” Meanwhile, Rawal said the two communist parties would unify the merger by the third week of March and the party would hold its general convention within next one year. In another context, Rawal said the Cabinet would gets the full shape by Sunday next week after bringing Upendra Yadav-led Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal on board. Published on February 27th, Tuesday, 2018 4:21 PM 
Kathmandu, February 27 Chief Minister of Karnali Province, Mahendra Bahadur Shahi, has obtained the vote of confidence at the meeting of Provincial Assembly in Birendranagar of Surkhet today. Article 168(4) of the constitution requires the Chief Minister to obtain the vote of confidence from the Assembly within 30 days from the date of appointment if his/her party does not command a majority independently. Accordingly, Shahi had made an attempt to prove that he commands the majority. There are total 40 members in the Assembly; and 19 of the CPN-UML and 13 of the CPN-Maoist Centre voted in Shahi’s favour. However, the parliamentary party leader of main opposition Nepali Congress, Jeevan Bahadur Shahi, said the party would stay in opposition, but wished for the success of government. Published on February 27th, Tuesday, 2018 4:10 PM 
Kathmandu, February 27 The Ministry of Health has established a health desk at Singhadarbar, the country’s central administrative complex, for the service of government officials and staff working at various ministries. Chief Secretary Lok Darshan Regmi inaugurated the desk on the occasion of sixth Health Service Day today. Speaking at the function, Regmi said, “Human resources in a large number are working at the central secretariat. Many service recipients come here for services. Health problems are likely at such place anytime. Therefore, we have opened the health desk.” Meanwhile, Bir Hospital’s Director Dr Bhupendra Basnet said, “No staff need to go out for health checkup from Singhadarbar.” The desk will provide first aid and medicine services. Whereas the Department of Health Services will manage infrastructures, the Bir Hospital will send human resources including a doctor, a nurse and a paramedic. The desk will open from 11 am to 3 pm everyday. Published on February 27th, Tuesday, 2018 2:31 PM 
Kathmandu, February 26 South Korean police officials have also launched a probe on an alleged human trafficking case in which Nepali cine industry’s top action director Rajendra Khadgi is also involved. Khadgi is under trial in Kathmandu now. Sources say police in Seoul also launched the probe as Khadgi mentioned names of two Korean nationals also in his statement given to Nepal Police. Likewise, he also mentioned the name of a Nepali national currently living in Korea, Netra Bahadur Tamang. He said that he would just send people off Kathmandu, and those three people would facilitate other procedures in Korea. Maintaining that he did not know it was a crime, Khadgi has already accepted that he was involved in sending people to Korea with fake assurances. Meanwhile, the Kathmandu District Court remanded Khadgi to police custody for next seven days on Sunday. The Central Investigation Bureau of Nepal Police is looking after the case. Published on February 26th, Monday, 2018 3:53 PM 
Kathmandu, February 26 Though Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli was expected to give the full shape to the Cabinet today, oath of only four ministers has been confirmed so far. Two leaders from the CPN-UML and two others from the CPN-Maoist Centre will join the Cabinet today. UML General Secretary Ishwar Pokharel and former Nepal Rastra Bank governor Yubaraj Khatiwada will be new ministers from the UML. Khatiwada will be the Minister for Finance and Planning. Khatiwada was recently appointed a National Assembly member by the President, but the Supreme Court on Sunday has stayed the appointment. It, however, will not be an obstacle to join the Cabinet as the constitution allows a non-parliamentarian also to become a minister, but s/he has to become a lawmaker within six months. Likewise, from the Maoist Centre, Ram Bahadur Thapa and Matrika Yadav will be sworn in as ministers. Thapa will be made the Home Minister. The oath ceremony will be held at 4 pm at the Sheetal Niwas. Published on February 26th, Monday, 2018 2:46 PM 
Kathmandu, February 26 India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s senior leader Bhagat Singh Koshyari says he has hoped that Nepal-India ties will be stronger in the days to come as the new government has been formed in Nepal. The leader, who is currently in Kathmandu for the seventh meeting of Eminent Persons’ Group on Nepal-India Relations, says Oli and other key leaders of the country have expressed their commitment to strengthen the bilateral relationship. During his stay in Kathmandu, Koshyari called on Oli, Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba and CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal. “I am glad that all leaders said they could not think about destroying the relationship with India.” Speaking with journalists in Kathmandu today, Koshyari said, “The bilateral ties will be focused on development and prosperity in upcoming days. India is eager to see Nepal develop. The new government has been formed and I wish it would work for the country and the people.”   Published on February 26th, Monday, 2018 2:25 PM 
Kathmandu, February 26 The CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal has submitted to Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli the list of ministers who represent his party to the Oli government. According to the list, the party’s third-in-command leader Ram Bahadur Thapa will lead the Maoist group in the Cabinet. He will be given the powerful Ministry of Home Affairs. Earlier, three leaders of the Maoist party–Thapa, Barsha Man Pun and Janardan Sharma–had laid claim to the position. Now, Pun will be given another powerful ministry. Names of other ministers have not been revealed yet. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Oli is planning to expand his Cabinet this afternoon. The ministers will be sworn in at the Sheetal Niwas today itself. Published on February 26th, Monday, 2018 10:24 AM 
Kathmandu, February 25 The seventh meeting of Eminent Persons’ Group on Nepal India Relations has concluded in Kathmandu on Sunday. The meeting is supposed to be the second last as the bilateral panel has just five months to complete its tenure. The eighth meeting of the committee to be held after few months is expected to finalise a report identifying suggestions to solve issues about various bilateral treaties and agreements. Speaking after the conclusion of meeting, leaders of both sides–Nepal’s Bhekh Bahadur Thapa and India’s Bhagat Singh Koshyari–said they would make the report acceptable to both the sides. The EPG was formed in 2016 with a mandate to suggest if any provisions of bilateral treaties and agreements are needed to be amended. Nepali EPG members include former foreign affairs minister Bhekh Bahadur Thapa, former chief commissioner of the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority Surya Nath Upadhyay, former law minister Nilamber Acharya and formerl lawmaker Rajan Bhattarai. The Indian EPG members are former ambassador Jayanta Prasad, senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader Bhagat Singh Koshyari, former vice-chancellor of Sikkim University Mahendra Lama and VIF senior fellow BC Upreti. Published on February 25th, Sunday, 2018 4:42 PM 
Kathmandu, February 25 Indian auto giant Tata Motors says it is keen on introducing EVs in Nepal, one of the company’s key export destinations. This comes two months after Tata rolled out its first batch of the electric variant of its compact sedan Tata Tigor from its Sanand facility in Gujarat. The first batch ‘e-Tigors’ were produced for the Energy Efficiency Services (EESL), which had placed an order for 10,000 electric sedans in October. “We are working very hard to bring in electric vehicles in Nepal,” Sujan Roy, Tata Motors’ head of Passenger Vehicle (International Business) told Onlinekhabar in a recent interview. He, however, added that the plan is in its initial stage and the details are to be sorted out. “We don’t have a timeline. To some extent, we are constrained by the availability of charging facilities. But a Tata EV will be available on the streets of Nepal soon,” Roy added. He said that Tata considers it its ‘sacred’ responsibility to roll-out EVs in a ‘pristine’ country like Nepal. “We have the vehicles they are being manufactured at our plant every day, we would be happy to bring them to Nepal,” Roy explained. “Yes, the concessions available on EVs are attractive, but we consider it as a social responsibility to bring EVs to Nepal. Asked about his company’s pricing strategy for EVs in Nepal, Roy said that the prices will continue to fall as technology improves. “I would say that the tipping point in the EV market will soon be reached and electric cars will be as ubiquitous as mobile phones.” If Tata launches it’s EV in Nepal, it will join the ranks of BYD, Mahindra and KIA. Published on February 25th, Sunday, 2018 3:11 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 25 Former Speaker Subas Nembang says he wants to continue working for the UML party and is not in the race for president. Nembang, who is also a member of the party’s Standing Committee, says he does not even want to become a minister. “I have more than 10-12 years of politics left in me. So I don’t have the desire to take up a government position now,” he said. “It is my wish to work for the people and the party. I haven’t approached anyone for a ministerial position,” Nembang told Onlinekhabar. Although some party leaders are saying that Nembang could be elected Speaker yet again, he said that the issue has not been discussed within the party. It is believed that Nembang opted out of the race for president after President Bidya Devi Bhandari and former Prime Minister Jhalanath Khanal said they are interested. It is expected that Oli will name Nembang as his deputyÂ leader of the ruling party in Parliament. Published on February 25th, Sunday, 2018 12:51 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 25 Three influential CPN-Maoist Centre leaders want to take charge of the Ministry for Home Affairs. Party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal can only nominate one person to the post and he doesn’t want to decide in haste. According to party sources, this has delayed the expansion of Prime Minister KP Oli’s Cabinet. Sources also say that the Maoist Centre, an ally in the ruling coalition, is likely to make the difficult choice later on Sunday. The Maoist party has assigned Prachanda, Narayan Kaji Shrestha and Thapa, who is to lead the party in government, to choose its ministers. The three Maoist leaders are: Ram Bahadur Thapa, Barsa Man Pun and Janardan Sharma. While Prachanda’s choice for the post is Barsa Man Pun, the party ranks is in favour of Thapa. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Oli has hinted that it would be easier for him to work with Sharma as his Home Minister. Voices of discontent have also been heard in the ruling UML party, where various leaders have staked their claim to become ministers in the new Cabinet. However, accomplishing the task looks easier for Oli as he has been authorised to pick his ministers from the party. Published on February 25th, Sunday, 2018 12:21 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 25 Nepali officials have deported a Korean who had been on the run since 2016 after being charged with fraud, security sources say. Seung won Lee (Passport No, M 2511299), under whose name a Red Corner Notice had been issued by Interpol, was arrested in Pokhara on February 15. Nepal’s immigration department’s director Kosh Hari Niraula confirmed that Lee had been deported. “We sent him back to Korea with along with officials from Interpol,” he told Onlinekhabar. According to police sources, two members of Korean police had come to Nepal to take the fugitive home. They took Lee to Korea via Korean Airlines flight to Incheon. According to Nepa Police’s Interpol desk, Lee has been accused of fraud. He also allegedly dealt in narcotics. Published on February 25th, Sunday, 2018 11:58 AM 
Kathmandu, February 23 The CPN-UML has decided not to organise any conventions of its lower committees and sister organisations so as to facilitate the ongoing preparations for the unification between it and the CPN-Maoist Centre. A Standing Committee meeting of the party held at the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar made the decision. The party’s Publicity Department Chief Yogesh Bhattarai says all conventions and procedures to elect leadership have been put on hold as all structures of the party have to be changed into ad hoc committees after the unification with the Maoist Centre. However, other internal activities including membership distribution and cancellation, meetings and training programmes will continue, according to him. Meanwhile, the meeting also endorsed a seven-point agreement signed with the Maoist Centre for unification. Published on February 23rd, Friday, 2018 2:58 PM 
Kathmandu, February 23 Early in the morning on Friday, ambassadors of both immediate neighbours of the country–India’s Manjeev Singh Puri and China’s Yu Hong–went to the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar. However, no political or diplomatic meeting was scheduled there today. The two were there to wish the recently appointed Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli a happy birthday. Both the diplomats handed over bouquets to Oli and wished for his successful premiership on the occasion. Meanwhile, Oli’s UML party, the UML-aligned Madan Bhandari Sports Academy and staff of the Prime Minister’s secretariat also arranged cakes to celebrate Oli’s 67th birthday. Published on February 23rd, Friday, 2018 2:30 PM 
Kathmandu, February 23 Nepali cinema industry’s top action director Rajendra Khadgi, who has recently been accused of trafficking Nepalis to South Korea, has conceded the charge. He, however, maintains that he never knew that sending people abroad with fake assurances after taking a hefty would constitute the crime of human trafficking. The Central Investigation Bureau of Nepal Police, which is currently interrogating Khagdi over the charge, says he took 11 persons to Seoul faking them as his crew members. However, investigations found that he received Rs 1 million to Rs 1.5 million from each of them to acquire visa for them. “Everyone was doing the same and I followed suit,” Khagdi reportedly told police, “I never knew it was a crime.” After Khadgi’s statement, police have suspected that other film artists might have been involved in similar cases. “This is a new style of human trafficking,” a CIB official says, “But, we are still checking if the people who went to Korea through Khagdi are real victims.” Police had launched a probe against the celebrated artist after the Nepali Embassy in South Korea wrote to the CIB informing 11 persons who went to Seoul along with Khadgi did not return home. Khadki is said to have direction action scenes in more than 500 movies. For last five years, however, has has not done any project.     Published on February 23rd, Friday, 2018 12:32 PM 
Siraha, February 22 An improvised explosive device has gone off at a busy market area in Lahan, the district headquarters of Siraha, on Thursday. Local Anil Agrawal sustained critical injuries in the incident, according to police. He is undergoing treatment at a local health facility. The device was hidden inside a pressure cooker which was kept in a sack in front of local Shubha Laxmi Store, at the Sahid Chok, informs DSP Ganesh Chand of nearby Area Police Office. Details about who planted the explosive and the motive have not been ascertained. Police say they are looking into the case. Meanwhile, the explosion has created a sense of terror among locals, traders and businesspersons in particular. Published on February 22nd, Thursday, 2018 3:11 PM 
Kathmandu, February 22 Top leaders of CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre have directed two task forces formed to draft a statute and a political report of the new party that they will form after merging the two to complete their assignments and submit the report within next 15 days. Addressing a joint meeting of the two panels at the Prime Minister’s residence in Baluwatar today, Prime Minister and UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli and Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal expressed their hopes that the panels would prepare the reports in consensus as both involve higher level leaders from both the parties. After the panels will submit their reports, the top leaders will discuss the issues in detail. Therefore, it will take at least 20 more days to announce the unification. Maoist Centre senior leader Narayan Kaji Shrestha says the unification will be announced after mid-March. Published on February 22nd, Thursday, 2018 2:32 PM 
Kathmandu, February 22 The Nepali Congress has called a meeting of the party’s Central Working Committee meeting for coming Sunday, February 25. Earlier, the party President Sher Bahadur Deuba had called the meeting of Central Executive Committee for today, but was postponed later. The Sunday meeting will discuss contemporary political issues and next course of action for the party. The meeting will also discuss how the party will take the role of main opposition as the President has already summoned the first session of Federal Parliament from March first week.   Meanwhile, Federal Parliament members of the party are holding a meeting today to discuss contemporary political issues. Published on February 22nd, Thursday, 2018 2:13 PM 
Janakpur, February 22 Province 2Â  Chief Minister Lalbabu Raut will seek the vote of confidence at the Provincial Assembly meeting in Janakpurdham on Thursday. Article 168(4) of the constitution requires the Chief Minister to obtain the vote of confidence from the Assembly within 30 days from the date of appointment if his/her party does not command a majority independently. Accordingly, Raut will make an attempt to prove that he commands the majority. Earlier, Province Chief Ratneshwar Lal Kayastha had appointed the Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal to the position as he claimed he had the support from Rastirya Janata Party Nepal too. There are total 107 members in the Assembly and the two parties jointly have 54 members, which is just more than 50 per cent of total strength. Further, Raut has also sought the support of Nepali Congress. The Assembly meeting has been called for 1 pm today. Published on February 22nd, Thursday, 2018 10:18 AM 
Kathmandu, February 21 The youth wing of Nepali Congress, which has accused President Bidya Devi Bhandari of discriminating against the party in favour of the new left alliance government, has launched a street protest against the head of the state on Wednesday. Nepal Tarun Dal cadres stated a demonstration in front of the President’s Office, Sheetal Niwas today. The main opposition party is enraged with the President as she put three names recommended by the Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government for the National Assembly on hold, but endorsed the names recommended by KP Sharma Oli-led government. The youth wing has accused the President of trying to become active in politics unconstitutionally. The organisation has demanded that the President correct her decision. Published on February 21st, Wednesday, 2018 4:50 PM 
Kathmandu, February 21 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC has denied an accusation that he also forged his citizenship certificate. Dr KC, who has accused Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli of forgery, was accused of committing the same crime on social media recently. Following the accusation, the veteran orthopaedic surgeon organised a press meet at his workplace, Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital, and made public his citizenship certificate as well as academic credentials. He, however, maintained that he later acquired a copy of the citizenship certificate after the original one was torn over years. He also conceded that his citizenship certificate and academic papers have different dates of birth due to human and technical errors and said he would correct them at the earliest. Meanwhile, Dr KC reiterated that he would continue his fight against Parajuli claiming he was corrupt and was working in cahoots with the mafia. Published on February 21st, Wednesday, 2018 4:27 PM 
Kathmandu, February 21 The CPN-Maoist Centre has decided to join the CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli-led government under the leadership of the party’s third-in-command Ram Bahadur Thapa, Thapa will become the second or third man in Oli Cabinet as the Deputy Prime Minister. He will lead a ‘powerful’ portfolio. A Maoist Centre source says Thapa has demanded that he be given the Ministry of Home Affairs. However, party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal has told him that the portfolio will be finalised after a discussion with the UML. There are two other leaders claiming the position in the party–Janardan Sharma and Shakti Bahadur Basnet. Earlier, he was projected as the left alliance’s candidate for National Assembly Chairperson. However, he is more interested in the government than leading the Upper House, the source claims. It is expected that Oli will give the full shape to his Cabinet today. Published on February 21st, Wednesday, 2018 12:53 PM 
Kathmandu, February 21 One of the biggest hospitals of the country, Tribhuvan University Teaching Hospital, is all set to launch a liver transplant service, for the first time in the country. If all preparations made so far are anything to go by, the service will be launched within next two months, says senior surgeon Dr Ramesh Singh Bhandari, who has been leading the preparations. A team involving expert surgeons,Â anaesthetists, hematologists, radiologists and pathologists has been set up at the Hospital to launch the project. Likewise, an Australian team is also ready to extend needful support, according to him. Bhandari informs that his team is preparing to kickstart the service for last three years and three to four patients a month or 40 to 50 patients a year will benefit from the service. There is no official data about how many patients will transplant liver in Nepal every year. But, it is estimated that around 50 patients visit Indian health facilities for the purpose. Bhandari says his team will stop them here. He claims that the TU Teaching Hospital was recognised as one of the star medical institutions of South Asia till some years ago and his mission will not revive the stardom. “The Teaching Hospital is an ideal place for the transplant service as it has multi-specialty services with capable and experiences human resources.”   Published on February 21st, Wednesday, 2018 11:14 AM 
Kathmandu, February 21 Police say notorious gangster Manoj Pun has been killed in an encounter with security personnel in Devdaha of Rupandehi district in the wee hours of Wednesday. His aide, Som Aale is also dead in the action. SSP Deepak Thapa says a police team, including personnel from the Central Investigation Bureau, was on a search mission when it encountered the duo in Bhawanipur, Devdaha-4, at around 3:30 am today. Police, then, tried to arrest Pun and Aale, but they attempted an escape attacking police. Therefore, police were forced to open fire in retaliation, according to Thapa. They were rushed to the Lumbini Zonal Hospital, where they breathed last during treatment after few hours. Pun was accused of killing construction entrepreneur Sharad Kumar Gauchan in Kathmandu in October last year. Police say he masterminded the murder of CPN-UML’s district leader Durga Tiwari in Rupandehi in December 2016. Likewise, he had claimed the responsibility of killing entrepreneur Basanta Paudel ‘Balu’ in Rupandehi in the first week of January this year.   Published on February 21st, Wednesday, 2018 10:13 AM 
Chitwan, February 20 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal has refused to clarify if he signed an agreement with the CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli to share the five-year term of prime minister between two. Whereas media reports have claimed that the two leaders have sealed a secret ‘gentleman’s agreement’ to share the premiership, Dahal says for now, Oli can be supposed to be a full-term PM. It has been reported that the two parties have agreed not to make the deal public as it would eventually make the government weak and give a wrong impression among the public. Dahal says the unified party to be formed after the merger of two parties will hold its general convention within next couple of years and the convention will decide next course of action of the party. “For now, Oli is the prime minister for next five years. I cannot be sure if the general convention decides otherwise.” Regarding the party leadership, the leader says Oli and he will chair party meetings turn by turn. Published on February 20th, Tuesday, 2018 3:14 PM 
Kathmandu, February 20 Two explosions have been reported from Kaski and Jhapa districts as Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led Communist Party of Nepal imposed a day-long nationwide general strike on Tuesday. The party has resorted to protest after police arrested leaders and cadres of the outfit and foiled an event of the party in Biratnagar of Morang two days ago. A policeman and a journalist sustained injuries in the explosion in Bijayapur, Pokhara of Kaski, according to police. Policeman Kul Bahadur Khatri and local journalist Ghanashyam Pandey are undergoing treatment at the Gandaki Medical College Teaching Hospital. Meanwhile, another explosive went off in Damak of Jhapa district this morning. DSP Deepak Giri says no human casualty or physical damage has been reported. The bandh, however, did not leave any significant impact in most parts of the country.   Published on February 20th, Tuesday, 2018 12:45 PM 
Kathmandu, February 20 New Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli says he will revive the Budhigandaki Hydropower Project which has been uncertain after that previous Sher Bahadur Deuba-led government cancelled its contract signed with a Chinese company. In an interview with South China Morning Post, which the newspaper claims to be Oli’s first talk with media after he assumed the office of premiership last week, Oli, however, does not clearly mention if he wants to give back the project to Gezhouba Group. “Political prejudice or pressure from rival companies may have been instrumental in scrapping of the project. But for us, hydropower is a main focus and come what may, we will revive the Budhigandaki project,” he says. Immediately after then government’s decision to scrap the agreement, Oli had said the agreement cancelled the contract after the contractor denied giving then ruling parties ‘sufficient donation’. He had also warned that the next government to be formed after elections might choose to revoke the decision. The government had assigned state-run Nepal Electricity Authority to build the project, but the Authority has done nothing to expedite the construction works. Published on February 20th, Tuesday, 2018 12:25 PM 
Kathmandu, February 19 Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli has announced a cash prize of Rs 300,000 to each member of the Nepali national cricket team for they qualified for the next World Cup Qualifiers after becoming second in the recent World Cricket League Division II. The Prime Minister made the announcement as the crickets visited him at his official residence in Baluwatar today. Coaches of the team will also get the equal cash prize. Meanwhile, the Madan Bhandari Sports Academy says it will also provide Rs 100,000 to each member of the team. Published on February 19th, Monday, 2018 4:58 PM 
Rautahat, February 19 CPN-UML senior leader and former prime minister Madhav Kumar Nepal says he is against the proposal of sharing the position of prime minister between the UML and the CPN-Maoist Centre in turn as the two parties are preparing for the merger. Nepal’s statement follows media reports which claimed that UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli and Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal agreed to share the premiership one after another. “Where there will be a single party, why should we talk about taking turns? Will bureaucracy agree to it?” speaking with journalists at his private residence in Gaur of the district, Nepal said, “I do not know if the leaders made such an understanding.” The leader said a government with the majority support should be allowed to work confidently for the full term. He said development activities would get a momentum once the new government got its full shape. Published on February 19th, Monday, 2018 4:20 PM 
Kathmandu, February 19 CPN-UML Vice-Chairman Bamdev Gautam says his Chairman KP Sharma Oli and CPN-Maoist Centre counterpart Bamdev Gautam have finally agreed to unify the parties and have settled all differences about the merger. Gautam, however, says he will divulge all details of the understanding as it will adversely affect the environment created for unification. The Party Unification Coordination Committee will endorse the understanding today, according to him. The meeting of the panel involving leaders from both the parties has been scheduled for 7 pm at the Prime Minister’s residence today. Gautam is also a member of the committee. For last few days, Oli and Dahal are engaged in extensive discussions about the unification process and both have been telling media and their parties that the talks are going on positively. Published on February 19th, Monday, 2018 3:57 PM 
Kathmandu, February 19 Accusing his party of exchanging ministerial positions for money, a lawmaker of CPN-UML in Province 6 Assembly has announced resignation. The provincial lawmaker from Mugu district, Chandra Bahadur Shahi, says his party distributed powerful positions to people who paid money, thereby giving injustice to other deserving leaders. Shahi, an advisor to the party’s central committee, also claims he also gave up the party’s general membership. Shahi says he has already submitted his resignation from the Assembly to the provincial speaker and will submit the resignation as the party’s member to the central office. Earlier, Shahi had laid claim to the provincial speaker’s position. The party, however, did not meet his expectation as it nominated Raj Bahadur Shahi as the speaker. Following that, he has expected to be made a minister in the provincial government, but he failed in that too. Shahi has accused the provincial parliamentary party leader Yamlal Kandel of nominating ministers on the basis of who could pay him how much.     Published on February 19th, Monday, 2018 11:17 AM 
Kathmandu, February 19 President Bidya Devi Bhandari on Monday has called the first meeting of Federal Parliament, consisting of the National Assembly and the House of Representatives, for Monday, March 5. The President made the summons following a recommendation from the Prime Minister as per Article 93(1) of the constitution, according to a statement issued by the President’s Office. The President will also address the first joint meeting of two Houses, according to Article 95(2) of the constitution. The meeting will take place at the International Convention Centre at 4 pm on March 5. Published on February 19th, Monday, 2018 11:00 AM 
Kathmandu, February 18 The 70 MW Middle Marsyangdi Hydropower Project located in Lamjung has been shut for 10 days to repair the project embankment, say the project authorities. The project will remain closed from February 22 to March 4 to repair the damaged structures put up to prevent soil erosion on the both sides of the embankment, they say. The halt in the electricity generation of the project, however, will not affect the regular power supply across the country, says the Managing Director of the Nepal Electricity Authority, Kul Man Ghising. “We have alternative to ensure regular supply of electricity this winter like operating first and second power houses of Kulekhani Hydropower Project in full. A total of 380 megawatts electricity is being imported from India. So there will not be power cuts this year,” he says. RSS Published on February 18th, Sunday, 2018 4:50 PM 
Biratnagar, February 18 Police intervened in preparations for a programme the Netra Bikram Chand ‘Biplav’-led Communist Party of Nepal was organising in Biratnagar of Morang district today and arrested nearly three dozen central leaders and cadres of the party. After the arrest, the scheduled third national convention of its youth wing, scheduled to begin this afternoon, could not take place. A cadre of the party, Yugen, says police took them under control claiming they would interrogate them. Whereas some of the arrestees have been kept at the District Police Office, others have been taken to local police stations, according to him. Meanwhile, DSP Bishnu Hari Koirala at the DPO says they will be released shortly after needful investigation. Police have been cracking down on the communist outfit’s activities as it has been involved in anti-state campaigns including obstructions to elections. Published on February 18th, Sunday, 2018 2:33 PM 
Kathmandu, February 18 Chairmen of CPN-UML and CPN-Maoist Centre, KP Sharma Oli and Pushpa Kamal Dahal respectively, have begun another round of discussion in a bid to forge a common understanding about the unification of the two parties and the expansion of new government. The two parties are in the unification negotiation for last five months. They contested provincial and federal parliamentary polls together to claim a landslide victory. Recently, Oli has already been appointed the Prime Minister, but the Maoist Centre has not joined the government. It has been learned that the party wants to finalise the modality for unification before joining the government. The meeting is underway at a medical college operator’s private residence in Sano Thimi of Bhaktapur, according to a source. The two leaders had held a meeting yesterday as well. Meanwhile, the Party Unification Coordination Committee involving leaders of both the parties is scheduled to hold a meeting today following the top leaders’ meeting. Published on February 18th, Sunday, 2018 12:41 PM 
Kathmandu, February 18 The ruling coalition partner CPN-Maoist Centre has elected its Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal the party’s parliamentary party leader. A meeting of the parliamentary party held in Singhadarbar of Kathmandu today elected Dahal unopposed. Meanwhile, the party distributed election certificates to its House of Representatives members elected under the proportional representation voting system. During the meeting, Dahal had briefed the party’s lawmakers about recent talks held with the CPN-UML for the proposed merger of two parties. Lawmaker Devendra Paudel says Dahal, however, did not elaborate recent developments in detail. He also informed that he was going to meet UML Chairman and Prime Minister KP Sharma Oli to discuss the issue today as well. Published on February 18th, Sunday, 2018 10:57 AM 
  Kathmandu, February 16 Lawmakers from the federal legislature as well as Province 3 assembly have demanded that the permanent capital of the state be shifted from Hetaunda. They say that the caretaker government named Hetauda as the provisional capital to win over people’s sentiments province, without evaluating its geographical position. Speaking at a programme in Kathmandu, lawmaker Gokul Baskotalawmaker from Kavrepalanchowk said Hetaunda was not a suitable location for the capital of Province 3 in view of its geography. He was of the view that Kavre was the best option for setting up the province headquarters.
Parbat Gurung of Dolakha argued that Hetaunda could not be the appropriate location for the capital as it is far from districts such as Rasuwa and Sindhuli. State Assembly member from Bhaktapur-2, Sashijung Thapa accused the previous government of declaring Hetaunda as the temporary provincial capital under the influence of some ministers. Either Bhaktapur or Banepa is best-suited for the purpose, according to him.
— Published on February 16th, Friday, 2018 5:14 PM 
  February 16, Kathmandu Entrepreneurs representing nine Nepali companies are all set to pitch to global investors, first in Amsterdam then in London, next week. The entrepreneurs, who received a rigorous 100-day mentorship from local and foreign experts, were part of the Rockstart Impact programme, managed by One to Watch in Nepal. Representatives from the nine companies pitched to local investors in Kathmandu on Thursday. After the Demo Day in Kathmandu, the entrepreneurs head to Europe. They will first pitch to investors in Amsterdam on February 21, at the Rockstart Headquarters, after which they pitch to investors in London on February 23 at the CDC Group. Of the 200 applicants received by One to Watch, nine companies were chosen to participate in the programme, which saw local and international mentors guide the entrepreneurs and make them investment-ready. In the three years of its launch, Rockstart Impact has accelerated 29 companies and raised over 3 million Euro as investment pledges for 21 companies. The goal of this programme is to support high potential entrepreneurs and link them to domestic and international growth capital. The Rockstart Impact programme is managed by One to Watch, and has been organised in partnership with the DOEN Foundation, DFID, ICCO Cooperation, OXFAM and Triodos Bank; and its associated partners are SAFAL Partners and Nepal Communitere. Published on February 16th, Friday, 2018 4:54 PM 
Kathmandu, February 16 After finishing as runners-up in the World Cricket League Division Two, Nepal kick off their World Cup qualifiers campaign against hosts Zimbabwe on March 4. Nepal have been drawn alongside Afghanistan, Hong Kong, Scotland and hosts Zimbabwe in group B. Nepal will play their group stage matches against Scotland on March 4, against Afghanistan on March 10. The final match against Hong Kong is on March 12. Division two winners UAE have been drawn in Group A along with West Indies, the Netherlands, Papa New Guinea and Ireland. Each side plays the other teams in their group once with the top three from the groups progressing to the Super Six stage. The teams each play three Super Six matches against the sides they did not meet in the group stage. All points won in the groups will be carried over to the Super Six stage apart from those gained against the bottom two from each group. The finalists will both progress to the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019, whilst the Netherlands (ICC World Cricket League Championship winners) and the three highest finishing Associate Members will earn ODI status till 2022 upon the conclusion of the event. Only the big matches in Harare during the group stage and the Super Six ties will be on TV. Zimbabwe, based in Bulawayo will not have any of their matches broadcast during the group stage. Nepal will also play two warm-up matches before the qualifiers. First against UAE on February 27 and the other against Honk Kong on March 1. Published on February 16th, Friday, 2018 4:38 PM 
Kathmandu, February 15 Nepal’s Election Commission has begun consultations with major political parties to conduct elections for President and Vice-president. The commission even proposed dates for the elections during a meeting with leaders of five major political parties represented in the federal Parliament. According to a participant of the meeting, the commission has proposed that election for president be conducted on March 5 and that for VP on March 17. According to the constitution, the Federal Parliament, which consists of the two Houses, elects the President. However, the commission has not reached a final decision on when the elections will take place. It said that the date will be announced after consulting the new government. According to the new constitution, the President and the Vice-president need to be of different gender. That is why election for president will take place first.   Published on February 15th, Thursday, 2018 4:36 PM 

  Kathmandu, February 15 CPN Maoist Centre’s Trilochan Bhatta, who was recently elected the party’s parliamentary leader for Province 7, has been appointed Chief Minister. Governor Mohan Raj Malla appointed him to the post in accordance with Article 168 (2) of the Constitution of Nepal. According to the governor’s office, Bhatta will be administered his oath of office and secrecy on Saturday. Bhatta (48), on Wednesday, had officially laid claim to the post of Chief Minister. Bhatta was elected to the Provincial Assembly from a constituency in Doti. Of the 60 lawmakers in Province 7, 25 belong to the UML, 14 to the CPN Maoist Centre, 12 to the Nepali Congress and two to the Rastriya Janata Party. Bhatta’s candidacy was backed by lawmakers from his own party as well as those from the UML. Published on February 15th, Thursday, 2018 3:01 PM 
   Nepal beat Canada by one wicket yesterday to qualify for the World Cup qualifiers to be held in Zimbabwe in March. What looked like another disappointing match turned on its head after Karan KC smashed an unbeaten 42. Here is how world cricket reacted after the thriller in Namibia: As the game wasnâ€™t shown on TV most of the fans were keeping track of the game online. Doing that isnâ€™t particularly easy and the fans agree. My heart is pounding so fast. #NepalvsCanada #wcldiv2 
Kathmandu, February 15 Nepal’s Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba has resigned following official announcement of results of recent parliamentary polls in which his Nepali Congress party fared very badly. Deuba, however, claimed the responsibility of successfully holding elections at local, provincial and federal levels as he delivered a 15-minute televised address to the nation on Thursday morning. During the address, Deuba also highlighted other key achievements of his eight-month premiership including improvements in diplomatic relationships and economic progress. He also claimed that the government took significant decisions to serve interests of people. With the CPN-Maoist Centre’s support, Deuba was elected the Prime Minister in June 2017. (Updated at 11:15 pm) — Kathmandu, February 15 Nepali Congress President Sher Bahadur Deuba is announcing his resignation from the position of Prime Minister today. Currently, Deuba is chairing the last meeting of his Cabinet, and he will address the nation following the meeting, says a source at the Prime Minister’s residence. He will announce his resignation during the address, according to the source. Till yesterday, Deuba was resisting the demand for resignation despite the pressure from left alliance claiming his government was yet to complete the election procedures which it was assigned to. But, as the Election Commission submitted the final results to the President yesterday, Deuba is in the mood of resigning before CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli will get appointed the new PM today.   Published on February 15th, Thursday, 2018 10:47 AM 
Kathmandu, February 15 Update 1300hrs: CPN UML Chairman KP Oli has been appointed the new Prime Minister of Nepal. According to the President’s Office, Oli was appointed to the post in accordance with Article 73 (2) of the Constitution of Nepal. The appointment comes a day after the CPN UML and its Left Alliance partner CPN Maoist Centre requested the President to appoint Oli to the post. Prime Minister-designate Oli will take his oath of office and secrecy at 1600 hrs today. He will now have to prove his majority in Parliament within 30 days.   **** Earlier report: A day after the Election Commission submitted final results of House of Representatives elections and his party decided to form the new government under his leadership, the largest political party in the House, CPN-UML’s Chairman KP Sharma Oli has officially laid claim to the position of Prime Minister. Oli met President Bidya Devi Bhandari at the Sheetal Niwas today and informed the head of the state that he has also received the support from the CPN-Maoist Centre so that he commands a comfortable majority in the House. It is expected that the President will appoint Oli to the top executive position today. It will be his second term as the prime minister. Oli was accompanied by senior UML and Maoist Centre leaders during the meeting with the President. Published on February 15th, Thursday, 2018 10:25 AM 
Kathmandu, February 14 Thr CPN-UML has decided to put forward the name of its Chairman KP Sharma Oli for the next Prime Minister as soon as the new House of Representatives will begin its operation. Oli is certain to become the PM as the CPN-Maoist Centre has assured its support to him and the two parties together command a comfortable majority in the Lower House. A Standing Committee meeting of the party which has been emerged as the biggest political force of the country after recent elections made the decision, according to party Secretary Gokarna Bista. The party is, however. is yet to officially choose Oli as the parliamentary party leader because the Election Commission is yet to announce the final results of proportional representation polls. The process of appointment of Prime Minister will begin as soon as the Commission submits final results of House of Representatives election to the President. Published on February 14th, Wednesday, 2018 4:30 PM 
Kathmandu, February 14 CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli has called an emergency meeting of CPN-UML Standing Committee, which is expected to endorse an agreement that he has made with the CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal for the unification between two parties. The UML will hold the Standing Committee meeting at the house of Dahal’s cadre Sharada Prasad Adhikari in Manbhawan of Lalitpur. Later this afternoon, the Party Unification Coordination Committee will hold a meeting at the same place. Details of the agreement, however, have not been made public yet. Adhikari’s house is being used as a common meeting venue for UML-Maoist Centre meeting for last few days. Oli and Dahal have held rounds of one-on-one meeting here. Published on February 14th, Wednesday, 2018 2:30 PM 
Butwal, February 14 CPN-Maoist Centre lawmaker Purna Bahadur Gharti has been unanimously elected the speaker of Provincial Assembly in Province 5. A meeting of the Assembly held in Butwal of Rupandehi endorsed the proposal tabled by lawmaker Dadhi Ram Neupane as per article 182(2) of the constitution. Neupane’s proposal was seconded by Bhumeshwar Dhakal. After his election, Gharti said he would work together will all parties and lawmakers to perform his new duty. Meanwhile, the Assembly has scheduled the election to deputy speaker on coming Sunday. As the CPN-Maoist Centre has already decided to extend support to the CPN-UML for the position, it is certain than a UML lawmaker will get elected.   Published on February 14th, Wednesday, 2018 2:06 PM 
Kathmandu, February 14 A group of lawyers on Wednesday picketed the office of Judicial Council in Pulchok of Lalitpur demanding that Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli resign owing to recent controversies about his date of birth and academic credentials. The lawyers gathered in front of the office as CJ Parajuli was about to lead a meeting of the Council, which was scheduled to recommend justices and judges for the Supreme Court and various high courts and district courts. Speaking at the demonstration, advocates Kapil Dev Dhakal and Yubaraj Banjade said the Chief Justice should step down as the controversies about him tainted the image of independent judiciary. They demanded that the Council officially defend the charges labelled against him, if otherwise. They also claimed that the Council should not recommend the justices now as the status of current government is just a caretaker one. Published on February 14th, Wednesday, 2018 1:41 PM 
Chitwan, February 13 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says he will be elected the prime minister of the country again, sooner or later. Dahal’s statement has been looked at curiously as the two major communist parties of the country–the CPN-UML and the Maoist Centre–are said to have forged an agreement on the basis of a power sharing deal between them. The Maoist Centre chief hints that the two parties may choose to share the premiership between the leaders of two parties for 2.5 years each. Dahal, however, says the two parties are yet to finalise the deal, but it is certain that he will be the PM once again. Speaking at a function in his home district of Chitwan today, DahalÂ was responding to a wish of Nepali Congress representative for his next premiership.   Published on February 13th, Tuesday, 2018 4:34 PM 
Kathmandu, February 13 Nepal’s national flag carrier Nepal Airlines Corporation has brought two new aircraft in a bid to increase its share in the domestic flight market. The Corporation says the new aeroplanes will be flown to mountainous districts in particular. Stakeholders, however, fear that the aircraft might turn white elephants for the government-owned company thanks to its high maintenance cost and low productivity. The aircraft which took off a Harbin airport around one week ago landed in Kathmandu at 2 pm today. Around five years ago, the Corporation had signed an agreement with the Chinese government to buy eight aircraft. Four of them have already arrived in Kathmandu. But, the Corporation has been reporting frequent problems in the operation of two of these aircraft currently flying. Skilled pilots and matching equipment are also scarce for these aircraft. It is feared that the new planes will also undergo the same fate. “The Corporation is adding new planes without any preparation,” a Corporation official says, “Under present circumstances, these new aircraft will remain grounded at the airport.”     Published on February 13th, Tuesday, 2018 4:20 PM 
Kathmandu, February 12 British Minister of Armed Forces, Mark Lancaster, visited Nepal Red Cross Societyâ€™s Blood Transfusion Centre in Balkumari of Lalitpur on Monday. Lancaster was in Kathmandu to see the Centre’s building constructed with the support of British government and British Red Cross around three years ago, an NRCS official says, adding the emergency service centre was constructed to be prepared for any emergency especially earthquakes. The building is earthquake resistant and made up of container and fitted with solar panels so it can run in a situation of no electricity. The Minister was accompanied by the British Ambassador Richard Morris during the meeting. The NRCS says they delegates also held a lunch meeting with the NRCS team yesterday itself. Published on February 13th, Tuesday, 2018 3:30 PM 
Kathmandu, February 13 The Kathmandu District Court on Monday sent the Chairman of five-star Everest Hotel, Mashkoor Ahmad Lari, who was arrested in connection with a 21-year-old drug smuggling case last week, to the judicial custody. SP Ram Datta Joshi of the Metropolitan Police Range, Kathmandu, says the industrialist has been sent to the Sundhara-based Central Jail. Earlier, police had arrested him on February 8. Police investigation had found thatÂ he was involved in the smuggling of 250 kg hashish that was seized from a German airport in 1997. He was absconding since then. Published on February 13th, Tuesday, 2018 12:59 PM 
Kathmandu, February 12 Nepal pulled off a dramatic win against rivals Kenya in their fourth match of ICC World Cricket League Division II, being played in Namibia. Having won the toss, Nepal put Kenya to bat first. Although Sandeep Lamichhane claimed five wickets for just 20 runs in his 10 overs, Kenya mustered 177/8 in their allotted 50 overs. Kenya’s Collins Obuya (27) scored the most runs for the Africans. But it was tail-ender Ngoche, who stepped on the accelerator for his side, hitting two sixes in his 15-ball 23. Nepal ‘s batting filed to impress yet again with openers Malla and Anil Shah departing without reaching double figures. Skipper Paras Khadka took the attack to the opposition for his 42 off 44 balls. However, the belonged to Aarif Sheikh (42) and Rohit Paudel (47) who guided Nepal towards the target. Nepal chased down the target in the final ball of the final over with Sompal Kami playing away on the leg side and the fielder fumbling before making the throw. Nepal now play Canada, who have only lost to Namibia the tournament, on Wednesday. Nepal and Canada are on six points while UAE are currently third with four points. While win for Nepal will see them make it to the finals and the World Cup Qualifers, Nepal’s loss could help UAE claim the second spot. If Nepal lose to Canada and the UAE beat Namibia, UAE could grab the second spot with a better run-rate. Published on February 12th, Monday, 2018 8:52 PM 
Hetaunda, February 12 Province 3 Chief Minister Dor Mani Poudel has formed a three-member Council of Ministers on Monday. The Poudel government has been the first provincial government of the country as other provinces are yet to form their governments. After taking the oath of office and secrecy this morning, Poudel inducted his party CPN-UML’s Keshav Sthapit and coalition partner CPN-Maoist Centre’s Shalik Ram Jamakattel as ministers. They have been given Physical Infrastructure and Internal Affairs portfolios respectively. Jamakattel is most likely to hold the second rank in the joint government after Poudel. Therefore, the Maoist Centre’s parliamentary party leader has been given the powerful ministry. The two ministers were also sworn in by Province Chief Anuradha Koirala during a special function organised in the provincial capital Hetaunda today itself. They will assume their offices later this afternoon. Published on February 12th, Monday, 2018 4:21 PM 
Kathmandu, February 12 CPN-UML General Secretary Ishwar Pokharel says his party and the CPN-Maoist Centre are yet to settle differences regarding ideology and organisational structure of the new party that they plan to form after merging the two. With the statement, a key member of the Party Unification Coordination Committee hints that the unification process will take some more time to complete. “We need to have a common footing on organisational affairs. We are yet to form a common opinion about the organisational unification. There are also some differences about our ideology,” Pokharel said, “We are currently ironing out them.” Speaking at a function in Kathmandu today, Pokharel added that the debate about whether the new government should be formed before the unification or vice versa was meaningless. “The new government will be formed as per the constitution. It could occur before or after the unification. These are different issues.”   Published on February 12th, Monday, 2018 3:19 PM 
Kathmandu, February 12 Indian Army Chief Bipin Rawat will come to Kathmandu today to be a part of the Nepali Army Day function which also coincides with the great Hindu festival of Maha Shivaratri. Nainraj Dahal, Nepali Army’s spokesperson, says, “This is the first time any Chief of the Indian Army will be present here on the Army Day.” To commemorate the unification of Nepal, every year Nepali Army celebrates Army Day on the day of Maha Shivaratri. The event will take place tomorrow at the Army Pavilion, Tundikhel where the military personnel will demonstrate numerous cultural performances and will also fire cannons to mark the event. Rawat has been invited to be the chief guest of the function. Meanwhile, Rawat will also meet top political leaders and discuss various bilateral affairs, according to the military source. Rawat has also been awarded the Honorary Rank of General by the President of Nepal. Following decades-long tradition, both Nepal and India honour each other’s army chiefs with the title. Published on February 12th, Monday, 2018 12:15 PM 
Janakpur, February 12 The Provincial Assembly in Province 2 has decided the uniforms for its marshals. Earlier, the Assembly was under fire for banning the use of daura suruwal and coat as the dress for marshal. During the first meeting of the legislature last week, the personnel had put on clothes of their choice, and it was also criticised by members of the public. Now, the Assembly has decided safari suit as the uniform for men providing security to the meeting, according to Rastriya Janata Party Nepal’s lawmaker Manish Kumar Suman. He informs that women marshals will put on sari during the Assembly meetings. The federal Parliament and assemblies in other six provinces, however, are likely to use daura suruwal and sari as uniforms. Published on February 12th, Monday, 2018 12:04 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 11 The match between Nepal and the United Arab Emirates under the ICC World Cricket League Division II has been reduced to 34 overs owing to the delay triggered by the wet pitch. Now, the match will begin in Namibia at 4:10 pm Nepal standard time. Meanwhile, Nepal won the toss and chose to bowl. This is Nepal’s third match in the tournament. Earlier, Nepal have won over the hosts, but lost to Oman. Published on February 11th, Sunday, 2018 4:04 PM 
Butwal, February 11 The CPN-UML and the CPN-Maoist Centre have handed over a letter to the Chief of Province 5, Bidyadhar Mallik, requesting that UML lawmaker Shankar Pokhrel be appointed the Chief Minister as he has the support of majority Provincial Assembly members. Pokhrel, who is also the UML parliamentary party leader, and Maoist Centre counterpart Kul Prasad KC handed over the letter to Pokhrel today. In response, Mallik said he would make the appointment as per the constitution. Article 168 of the constitution says the Chief appoints the leader of party commanding majority the Chief Minister. If no party commands a clear majority, any lawmaker who claims to have the support of majority will be appointed. Pokhrel is certain to be elected the Chief Minister as the two parties have 61 members jointly in the 87-member Assembly. Meanwhile, Pokhrel says he will form a small Council of Ministers within next couple of days. KC adds that the government will have three members in the first phase including Pokhrel, and a leader from the UML and the Maoist Centre each.   Published on February 11th, Sunday, 2018 3:19 PM 
Hetaunda, February 11 CPN-Maoist Centre’s Radhika Tamang has been elected the deputy speaker of Province 3 Assembly unanimously. The Provincial Assembly meeting held in Hetaunda of Makawanpur today announced her election as no other member filed nominations for the position. CPN-UML’s parliamentary party leader Dor Mani Poudel had proposed her for the position and it was supported by the Maoist Centre’s parliamentary party deputy leader Kumari Moktan. The two left parties have already agreed to share key positions in provinces where they have a majority. The 34-year-old leader is a former state minister at the federal government and a central member of her party. Earlier on Saturday, the Assembly elected CPN-UML’s Sanu Kumar Shrestha the speaker, unopposed. Published on February 11th, Sunday, 2018 12:41 PM 
Chitwan, February 9 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says issues regarding who should take up which position are not delaying the proposed unification between CPN-UML and his party. He says the two parties do not have any issue with positions as both himself and UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli have already taken up powerful state offices. Claiming that all discussions on the party unification are positive, the former prime minister says, “No discussion is negative. I want to clarify you again that the delay is not caused due to our interests in positions.” The leader informs that a meeting of the Party Unification Coordination Committee scheduled for today was postponed as he is not in the capital. In another context, he says the new government will be formed within next nine days. Dahal was speaking with journalists at the Bharatpur Airport in his home district today.   Published on February 9th, Friday, 2018 4:45 PM 
Biratnagar, February 9 The CPN-UML’s Provincial Assembly members in Province 1 have electedÂ  former minister Sher Dhan Rai their parliamentary party leader. As the party commands majority in the provincial legislature, Rai now will be appointed the Chief Minister. During the election held in the provincial capital Biratnagar today, Rai polled 26 votes to defeat his competitor Bhim Acharya. Acharya received two votes less than Rai. One vote was declared invalid. In the party’s faction politics, Rai is close to the party Chairman KP Sharma Oli whereas Acharya belongs to the rival faction led by senior leaders Jhala Nath Khanal and Madhav Kumar Nepal. In the 93-member Assembly, the UML has 51 members. The CPN-Maoist Centre’s 16 lawmakers will also extend support to the UML to form the provincial government.     Published on February 9th, Friday, 2018 3:32 PM 
Kathmandu, February 9 The CPN-UML and the CPN-Maoist Centre have decided to jointly field UML’s Sanu Kumar Shrestha and Maoist Centre’s Radhika Tamang for the positions of provincial speaker and deputy speaker in Province 3 respectively. The two parties command a comfortable majority in the Provincial Assembly; therefore, Shrestha and Tamang are certain to win the polls. In the 110-member Assembly, the UML and the Maoist Centre have 58 and 23 members respectively. The election for speaker will be held on Saturday. The deputy speaker will be elected next week. Shrestha is a UML politburo member and he had expressed his interest to become the Chief Minister. However, after Dor Mani Poudel elected the parliamentary party leader, he is poised to lead the provincial government. Therefore, the party has decided to field Shrestha for the speaker. Shrestha is former Chairman of then Kathmandu District Development Committee. Meanwhile, former state minister Tamang will be elected the deputy speaker with the UML support. The constitution requires that provincial speaker and deputy speaker should represent different parties and genders. Published on February 9th, Friday, 2018 2:21 PM 
Kathmandu, February 9 The Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development, which is currently overseeing the country’s transformation to the newly set-up federal structure, says recently elected local level governments need 37,000 more staff than they currently have. It has already been four to nine months since people-elected officials are heading the local governments, but their smooth functioning has been hardly hit thanks to the lack of sufficient human resources. Most of total 753 local units have less than one third of the staff they need for proper functioning. Secretary at the Ministry of Federal Affairs and Local Development, Dinesh Kumar Thapaliya, says around 17,000 staff have been deployed at local governments while the Local Level Restructuring Commission had recommended that there should be around 54,000 staff. It means the local units are reeling under the shortage of 37,000 staff.Â A survey conducted by the Ministry some months ago had concluded that a rural municipality would need at least 59 staff. But, in reality, there are just 10 to 15 staff at every local government. Meanwhile, the staff adjustment process has hit a roadblock as the Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs failed to endorse the draft of Staff Adjustment Regulation that will enable the government to implement the Staff Adjustment Act. The draft was submitted to the Law Ministry around three months ago, but the Ministry has not responded anything though the draft was already endorsed by the Ministry of Finance, according to Nita Pokharel Aryal, Joint-Secretary at the Ministry of General Administration. The Act has a provision that a survey is conducted within six months since its implementation to determine exact number of personnel needed for local, provincial and federal governments. If the existing workforce is found insufficient, the government then will tell the Public Service Commission to hire new staff. But, the government is unlikely to accomplish all the tasks on time owing to ignorance to bureaucratic and political leadership.   Published on February 9th, Friday, 2018 11:11 AM 
Kathmandu, February 9 The Nepali Congress is holding an emergency meeting of the party’s Central Working Committee to discuss how to operate its provincial parliamentary party structures. The meeting has begun at 9 am at the Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba’s official residence in Baluwatar. Deuba’s personal secretary Sher Bahadur Deuba says the meeting will take initiatives to draft a statute to regulate provincial parliamentary parties. Earlier, CWC member Minendra Rijal was assigned to draft the statute. Rijal will present his report to the CWC today and it is expected to get endorsed today itself. Meanwhile, the meeting will also discuss contemporary political issues including new government formation, selection House of Representatives members for proportional representation category and candidacy in provincial state positions. Likewise, the issue of whether Deuba should resign to clear the way for new government formation will also be discussed. Published on February 9th, Friday, 2018 10:28 AM 
Kathmandu, February 8 Sources close to Prime Minsiter Sher Bahadur Deuba say the Nepali Congress President is mulling over tendering his resignation to President Bidya Devi Bhandari as soon as the Election Commission announces final results of the House of Representatives elections. While the left alliance was demanding that Deuba resign at the earliest, Deuba had been claiming that his government was yet to execute the mandate of holding National Assembly elections. Now, after the successful completion of the Upper House polls, the Commission is preparing to submit the final results to the President. Minister for Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs Yagya Bahadur Thapa says Deuba is likely to announce his resignation on the same day when the Commission submits the results. Though his resignation is not necessary to form the new government as the new Parliament will be elected through the elections, the left alliance, which is preparing to lead the next government, has been stressing that announcement of the resignation would show Deuba’s respect to people’s fresh mandate. Published on February 8th, Thursday, 2018 4:50 PM 
Kathmandu, February 8 Police in Kathmandu on Thursday arrested the Chairman of five-star Everest Hotel, Mashkoor Ahmad Lari, in connection with a 21-year-old drug smuggling case. A team deployed from the Metropolitan Police Circle in Maharajgunj arrested him today. Lari was absconding and police had launched a search after him, according to the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, AIG Jaya Bahadur Chand. Earlier, police investigation had found that he was involved in the smuggling of 250 kg hashish that was seized from a German airport in 1997. SP Ram Datta Joshi of the Metropolitan Police Range, Kathmandu, says Lari will be produced before the District Court today itself.   Published on February 8th, Thursday, 2018 2:54 PM 
Kathmandu, February 8 The Nepal government has drafted its new foreign policy. The High-level Foreign Policy Review Task ForceÂ formed to revise the existing policy submitted its report to Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba, who also takes charge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently, today. According to the panel’s member Shreedhar Khatri, they have suggested that Nepal put its neighbours, India and China in particular, on the top of its priority list regarding foreign relationships. The panel has also urged the government to keep constitutional provisions, guiding principles of the state and national interest at the centre of foreign policy. The document categorically discusses political, military, economic and institutional dimensions of diplomatic affairs. The government had formed the 16-member panel around nine months ago. Published on February 8th, Thursday, 2018 2:31 PM 
Kathmandu, February 8 Two months after the conclusion of voting, the Election Commission is announcing the number of seats won by political parties under the proportional representation election system in the House of Representatives. While left parties had exerted pressure on the Commission to publish the results after the conclusion of vote counting, the Commission had argued that there were constitutional hurdles as the share of women lawmakers should be at least 33 per cent from each party and results of the National Assembly were a must to calculate that. Now, the Commission will announce the results one day after successfully conducting the Upper House polls. Results from yesterday’s polls have already come out. The Commission will write to all parties requesting them to pick lawmakers from their closed lists while adhering to the quota allocated for women, Janajatis, Madheshis, Dalits and other groups, informs the Commission’s spokesperson Nawaraj Dhakal. It is expected that the parties will be given around five days to submit the list. Published on February 8th, Thursday, 2018 12:23 PM 
Kathmandu, February 7 The CPN-Maoist Centre has settled an internal dispute over who will lead the provincial government in Province 6 as the party is forming a coalition government with the CPN-UML there. Now, Mahendra Bahadur Shahi, the first-past-the-post lawmaker from Kalikot ‘B’ will lead the government as all leaders agreed on his name. Earlier, Shahi and Naresh Bhandari had made claims for the position. The party’s central leaders representing the Province including former home ministers Janardan Sharma and Shakti Bahadur Basnet have finalised Shahi’s name. The decision, however, is yet to be formally announced. “The informal discussion finalised the name,” a leader informs on the condition of anonymity, “The party will formally make the announcement on Thursday.” As per an agreement signed with the UML, the party is leading governments in provinces 6 and 7. Trilochan Bhatta from Doti will lead the Province 7 government. Published on February 7th, Wednesday, 2018 3:01 PM 
Kathmandu, February 7 The CPN-UML has decided to hold a poll to elect the party’s provincial parliamentary party leader in Province 3. The UML holds the majority in the Provincial Assembly, hence the leader will be appointed the Chief Minister. Party’s politburo member Arun Nepal says the election will be held in Lalitpur. A meeting of the party’s Provincial Committee made the decision. At least six persons have expressed their desire to lead the provincial government. They include party’s central Vice-Chairperson Ashta Laxmi Shakya and politburo member Rajendra Pandey. Whereas Shakya from Madhav Kumar Nepal faction and Pandey from Oli faction are likely to fight the final battle, other aspirants include Keshav Sthapit, Sanu Kumar Shrestha, Kailash Dhungel and Dor Mani Poudel. Pandey was close to Nepal few months back, but he switched to the Oli camp with the hope of becoming the chief minister. Published on February 7th, Wednesday, 2018 2:49 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 7 Whereas the left alliance has already divided key provincial positions for six of seven provinces that they have majority in, the Madheshi alliance which will form the government in Province 2 has been stuck over a debate on which is party is bigger than the other. For last few weeks, Upendra Yadav-led Federal Socialist Forum-Nepal and Mahantha Thakur-led Rastriya Janata Party-Nepal have been engaged in intensive discussions on how to divide key positions, but they have not reached any conclusion. Sources privy to recent discussions say the two parties have different opinions over which party is bigger. The Forum is the biggest party in Province 2 Assembly with five more seats than the RJPN. However, the RJPN polled more popular votes in recent elections and is bigger than the Forum in the House of Representatives. Therefore, both the parties have claimed themselves to be bigger than the other. It has almost been certain that Forum’s Lal Babu Raut will lead the provincial government. However, the RJPN has demanded that a rotational system be adopted for the leadership or it be given the position of speaker and four key ministries in the coalition government. But, the Forum is not ready to let the RJPN lead the government for half of the five-year term. It also thinks that the demand for four ‘powerful ministries’ in the provincial government along with the speaker’s position is more than the party’s size. The two parties have also discussed if Nepali Congress can be inducted in the government. Multiple options are being discussed, but nothing has been finalised, according to the sources. Published on February 7th, Wednesday, 2018 1:02 PM 
Kathmandu, February 6 CPN-UML Chairman KP Sharma Oli wants to become the next prime minister as well as the chairperson of the party to be formed after the UML’s merger with the CPN-Maoist Centre, say Maoist leaders who have been engaged in recent unification talks. The Maoist Centre has been demanding that the two key positions should be shared between the parties; hence, Oli’s desire has delayed the unification process, according to them. Immediately after the polls, Oli’s confidant and the party’s General Secretary Ishwar Pokharel had told that dividing key positions among different leaders would create multiple power centres in the party. Now, Oli agrees with Pokharel’s statement. “Oli said he would hand over the chairmanship only after next general convention,” a Maoist leader informs, “He has expressed his desire to hand over the power only after providing a guideline to the country and the party.” Meanwhile, President Bidya Devi Bhandari wants Oli and Dahal to share the positions, according to the leader. Duing a lunch meeting held with the two leaders on Sunday, the head of the state expressed her agreement to the Maoist proposal.   Published on February 6th, Tuesday, 2018 4:57 PM 
Kathmandu, February 6 Weeks after it was agreed that the historic Ranipokhari, destroyed in the 2015 earthquake, would be reconstructed in its original Malla-era model, the Department of Archaeology says it does not have any document that would give information about the pond’s original design. After the Kathmandu Metropolitan City asked for the original design to begin the reconstruction process, the Department says it does not have it. Earlier, an experts’ panel led by the Department’s former Director General Bishnu Raj Karki had recommended that the original shape and style be maintained during the reconstruction. Hinting that the Department is not ready to fully accept the recommendation, an official at the Department says, “We cannot build the entire pond and the temple at its centre in the Malla-era design on the basis of a single picture. We do not know its measurements and foundation stone.” Citing the unavailability of sufficient information, three representatives of the Department in the panel have not signed the panel’s report yet. Ranipokhari was constructed by Pratap Malla. It had collapsed in 1934 earthquake and then Prime Minister, Juddha Shamsher Rana, had reconstructed it in a new style.     Published on February 6th, Tuesday, 2018 4:19 PM 
Kathmandu, February 6 The Election Commission says it has completed preparations for the National Assembly elections scheduled for Wednesday. Total 2,056 voters including 550 Provincial Assembly members and 1,506 chiefs and deputy chiefs of local governments in seven provinces will cast votes to elect 56 members of 59-member Upper House on Wednesday. However, 24 members have already been elected unopposed and 52 candidates are in the fray for 32 positions. Organising a press conference at the Commission today, Chief Election Commissioner Ayodhee Prasad Yadav informed about the status of preparations. The Commission has barred political parties and their candidates from carrying out promotional campaigns for the polls from Sunday midnight. Published on February 6th, Tuesday, 2018 3:52 PM 
Sindhupalchok, February 6 Sindhupalchok District Coordination Committee says the fund available for 2015 earthquake survivors has run out. The Committee, however, maintains that it has written the federal government to release the additional money. Active Chief of the District Treasury Controller Office, Shambhu Prasad Pokharel, says it has already been 10 days since the Office has been unable to provide grant to the quake survivors for reconstruction works. The Ministry of Finance had provided Rs 3.84 billion in the first three months of current fiscal year. Total 79,972 quake survivors have received the first tranche of reconstruction grant worth Rs 50,000. The numbers of people to have received the second and third instalments, however, are 32,356 and 6,123 respectively. Local Development Officer Jagannath Pantha says the Committee has just sent a letter yesterday demanding Rs 2 billion. Provincial lawmaker Saresh Nepal says concerned government offices should be responsible to serious issues like this. Published on February 6th, Tuesday, 2018 2:22 PM 
Kathmandu, February 6 As many as 18 politburo members of the CPN-Maoist Centre have urged party Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal to take action against party’s leader and Province 1 In-charge Gopal Kiranti for making public statements against the proposed unification of the party with CPN-UML. They have said they will not attend a meeting of the party’s provincial committee if Kiranti chairs it and hence asked Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal to chair the meeting. The meeting has been scheduled for Thursday and Friday. They have also accused Kiranti of acting against the party in recent provincial and federal parliamentary polls. It has been learned that many leaders in Province 1 are not happy with Kiranti as he chose leader Sabitri Kumar Kafle’s wife, Bina Pokharel, for the National Assembly elections. Published on February 6th, Tuesday, 2018 12:28 PM 
    Personnel from the Nepal Army, Nepal Police, Armed Police Force and National Investigation Department, civil servants and teachers who were killed in the line of duty during the armed conflict have been declared as martyrs. A meeting of the Council of Ministers held at the Prime Minister’s residence, Baluwatar today took the decision. The Cabinet also decided to extend the term of the Commission on Investigation of Disappeared Persons and the Truth and Reconciliation Commission by one year, according to government spokesperson and Communications Minister Mohan Bahadur Basnet. Minister Basnet also shared that the meeting decided to extend the term of the High-level Education Commission by four months. Published on February 5th, Monday, 2018 7:59 PM 
Dang, February 5 Members of the Left Alliance should focus on ideology and not on which party gets what share of the leadership during the unification process, says Maoist leader Krishna Bahadur Mahara. Talking to party supporters in Ghorahi, Mahara said that the UML and the Maoist Centre should soften their stance on various issues for the unification process to go on smoothly. “We should not use the same 60-40 formula we used to allot seats during the elections,” said Mahara adding that the two parties should respect the people’s mandate. “The people want the two parties to unite and that is why there’s no question of backtracking,” he said. The former minister informed that both UML chief Oli and Maoist chairman Prachanda are keen on unifying the party before the new government takes charge. He said that the key ideologies of the Maoist party and the UML would be distilled to form a new ideology for the new party.   Published on February 5th, Monday, 2018 4:49 PM 
  Bhaktapur, February 5 A teenager accused of sexually assaulting a five-year-old in Bhaktapur, has been arrested, police said. According to Bhaktapur police, 18-year-old Basanta Tamang, who hails from Lalitpur Bungmati, was arrested on charge of assaulting a minor in Kamalbinayak on Monday. Police said that the accused took the child to his room, where he was living alone, and assaulted her. He was arrested following a complaint by the girl’s parents. Police say an investigation is underway. Published on February 5th, Monday, 2018 3:06 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 5 UML leaders are planning to shift the capital of Province 1 to Itahari from Biratnagar, a party source says. The news comes designation of provincial capitals around the country has been marred in controversy. In Province 1, local residents of Itahari, Dharan and Dhankuta, in addition to Biratnagar, have been demanding that their city become the seat of the provincial government. Although the government recently designated Biratnagar as the ‘temporary capital’ of the province, the provincial assembly has constitutional right to decide on the issue. According to the source, as the UML has majority in Province 1’s assembly, the party is likely to form the government on its own. The main contenders for Chief Minister are: Bhim Acharya, Sherdhan Rai and Jeevan Ghimire. Acharya is a resident of Itahara and Rai is from Bhojpur. Sources say that both the leaders are not in favour of designating Biratnagar as the provincial capital.Â The source said, “We are looking at Itahari and its surrounding areas such as Goth Gaun, Pakali and Tarahara. If a ring-road could be built to connect these places, we can build the infrastructure needed for the provincial government.” Published on February 5th, Monday, 2018 2:54 PM 
Kathmandu, February 4 CPN-UML Secretary Pradeep Gyawali says the recent visit of Indian Minister of External Affairs Sushma Swaraj has proved that Nepal’s strength in the regional politics is increasing. A loyal supporter of his party’s Chairman KP Sharma Oli, who reportedly invited Swaraj to Kathmandu, says the visit has commenced a new tradition, hence it should not be criticised. “We had a tradition that a party forming the new government here needs blessings from external forces. Now, it has ended,” Gyawali says, “It is indicative of Nepal’s increasing power that the foreign government is here to congratulate the party leading the new government.” Speaking with journalists at an interaction in Kathmandu today, the leader said it was positive that the Indian government sent its Prime Minister’s special envoy with a message that the government was eager to work with the new government here.   Published on February 4th, Sunday, 2018 5:14 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 4 Nepal Electricity Authority, which has recently launched a campaign to control power theft in various places of Lalitpur district, says armed police personnel should be mobilised in the mission as unarmed security personnel turned ineffective. Birendra Kumar Singh, Chief of the Authority’s Lagankhel Distribution Centre, says police personnel accompanying his staff should possess arms in order to arrest theft suspects. He informs that around 20 persons have been booked in past seven days during the mission. Rs 700,000 has been collected from them as fine, according to him. The Authority claims that electricity ‘hooking’ is rampant in some areas of the district including Satdobato, Chyasal and Mangal Bazaar and the theft has incurred a loss of Rs 500 million to the Authority every year. TheÂ  Authority has warned of cutting off electricity if anyone is found hooking power line. Published on February 4th, Sunday, 2018 5:03 PM 
Tanahun, February 4 Medical education reform activist Dr Govinda KC, who has been accusing Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli of corruption and working in cahoots with the mafia, has filed an application at the Tanahun District Administration Office demanding information about the citizenship certificate of Chief Justice Gopal Parajuli. Dr KC and his supporters filed the application as media reports earlier claimed Chief Justice acquired citizenship certificates from both Tanahun and Kathmandu districts and the certificates had different dates of birth. The applications have also sought information on why Parajuli acquired citizenship certificates from different districts. Dr KC has already filed a similar right to information application at the Kathmandu District Administration Office. Other persons who have signed the application include Dr KC’s supporters advocate Om Prakash Aryal, Dr Abhishek Raj Singh, Prakash Chandra Pariyar, among others. Published on February 4th, Sunday, 2018 12:16 PM 
Kavre, February 2 CPN-Maoist Centre Chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal says his left alliance will bring staff who have been trained in an elitist schooling onto the right track once it takes over the government leadership soon. Dahal says the staff who think themselves as kings and masters should be mobilised in the service of people strictly. Addressing a function in the Kavre district headquarters Dhulikhel today, Dahal said the new government would end all misconducts being practised in bureaucracy with a strict law. In another context, Dahal said no one should doubt on the plan of CPN-UML and his party about their unification. Published on February 2nd, Friday, 2018 5:00 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 2 A medical examination on the alleged victim of a gang rape case that reportedly occurred at a hotel in Darbarmarg of Kathmandu last week could not show evidence of rape, according to investigators. A source involved in the examination says, “The alleged victim’s sexual organ seems to have been sexually active already. That is why we failed to find any evidence of rape.” The victim, however, had given the statement that she was raped during the health checkup, according to the source. On the other hand, police are also looking into the case. Police had informed yesterday that the alleged victim told them that she  had the sex in consent, hence it was not a rape case. “We are looking into the case,” an official said. Published on February 2nd, Friday, 2018 4:42 PM 
 Kathmandu, February 2 Senior litterateur Man Brajaki passed away this morning at the age of 75. Bajraki was being treated for a brain haemorrhage at the Patan Hospital, according to litterateur Sunil Puri. He is survived by his spouse, one daughter and one son. Timri Swasni ra Ma and Annapurnako Bhoj are among famous collections of stories penned by Bajraki. He has written many newspaper articles on contemporary issues and his gazals were also followed widely. Published on February 2nd, Friday, 2018 3:11 PM 
